Families of passengers, who were killed in a Boeing 737 Max crash in Ethiopia, say they still do not believe the aircraft is safe despite its approval for resumption of flight by America’s Federal Aviation administration. FAA had on Wednesday cleared Boeing's 737 Max to fly again after the jets were grounded for 20 months due to a pair of crashes that killed 346 people.  According to NPR, two family members of crash victims said the American agency and Boeing have not cared to convince the family of efforts made to ensure the aircraft model kills no one else. Naoise Ryan, whose husband, Mick, was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, said Boeing and the FAA have not provided enough information about the fixes to convince her. "We want answers as to why the crash happened, and also we want answers to exactly what they've done to make sure this never happens again," she said. Another family victim Michael Stumo, whose daughter, Samya Rose Stumo, was also on the same plane, counselled passengers to avoid flying on the 737 Max. "They say (to) trust us just like before," he said. "(But) they don't meet with us. They meet with each other. And we cannot trust this plane." The concerns of the wife and father, come after the head of the FAA, Steve Dixon, told reporters in a press conference on Wednesday that it had made all checks necessary to ensure the 737 Max model could fly again. "This airplane has undergone an unprecedented level of scrutiny by the FAA," Dickson said. "We have not left anything to chance here." Before the plane makes its first flight though, the FAA has asked the manufacturer to make a series of design changes, which it spelt out in a 115-page document. The administrator, who was accused by the American congress for approving the faulty aircraft model in the first instance, also set out training requirements for pilots and maintenance requirements for airlines. Following the announcement by the US aviation regulator, the Airline Pilots Association in America issued a statement, saying it "believes that the engineering fixes to the flight-critical aircraft systems are sound and will be an effective component that leads to the safe return to service of the 737 MAX." American Airlines is expected to be the first company that will fly the rejuvenated 737 max model. However, brand experts say any airline that will fly the aircraft going forward, is likely to remove the word ‘max’ from the plane’s name. "You will see the MAX name used less frequently," one of the sources told Reuters. Brand finance estimates that the damage done to the Boeing image is about $7.5bn. Nigerian professor, Pius Adesanmi, was one of the many people killed by the decision of Boeing to fly an aircraft model it admitted to knowing had defaults and the FAA, who approved its use by airlines. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigeria’s Pius Adesanmi Killed In Ethiopian Airlines Plane Crash
0 Comments
1 Year Ago