The Lagos State Government has asked residents of the state or anyone, who lost relatives during the #EndSARS protest, to come for the identification of their loved ones. This comes despite claims from official quarters that no protester was killed during the peaceful protest. Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu The Nigerian Army also insisted that nobody was killed at the Lekki Toll Gate despite video evidence and bereaved family members' testimonies. The state government in a notice from the state asked next of kin to come with proof of identification of themselves and the missing persons. The state government said the victims must be those missing between 19th and 27th of October 2020. "This to notify the general public that the Chief Coroner of Lagos State, Hon Justice M. A. Dada (Mrs.) pursuant to section 15, Coroner's System Law of Lagos State, 2015 the Pathology Team would want all those who have lost loved ones between 19th - 27th October 2020 (that is, next-of-kin of the victims) to provide relevant information that would assist the identification exercise. "The next-of kin should kindly contact the Department of Pathology and Forensic Medicine, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Oba Akinjobi Way, Ikeja, for the identification exercise of the deceased. "The next-of-kin will be required to provide means of identification of themselves and their loved ones. Nationally recognised means of identification such as international passport, driver license, National ID or LASSRA ID shall be accepted. "Only the parents, siblings or children, in that decreasing order of preference are expected to come to LASUTH. The hours of visit shall be from 10:00am to 2:00pm for the next two weeks starting from the date of this announcement. "Please note that these next-of-kin shall be required to come with the following: clear photographs of the missing person; their own upper body photographs; and also provide samples for reference DNA profile, where necessary. "This profile will be compared with those already collected at autopsy from the deceased. It is only after a definitive scientific identification that the bodies of the deceased shall be released by the Office of the Chief Coroner to the next-of-kin for burial," the notice read.