The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has appointed Nurudeen Olaleye as the new Rector of the Lagos State Polytechnic. This was contained in a statement by the Office of the Special Adviser on Education, Lagos State, on Monday.  According to the statement, Governor Sanwo-Olu disclosed that the appointment of Olaleye was for a period of five years, effective from December 1, 2020 at the expiration of the tenure of the Acting Rector, Olumide Olusola Metilelu. The statement reads, “Mr Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, the Executive governor of Lagos State has approved the appointment of Dr Oluremi Nurudeen Olaleye as the 11th Rector of the Lagos State Polytechnic. “The appointment was sequel to an interview conducted by the Institution’s Governing Council and its subsequent recommendation, is for five years single term and takes effect from 1st December, 2020 at the expiration of the tenure of the Acting Rector, Mr Olumide Olusola Metilelu. “Dr Oluremi Nurudeen Olaleye prior to his appointment was a chief lecturer at the polytechnic. “The newly appointed rector studied Microbiology at the University of Lagos, Akoka, where he finished with second class, lower division, in 1994. He obtained his Master’s certificate in the same field in UNILAG in 1995. “He attended Loughborough University, United Kingdom, where he bagged his doctoral degree certificate in Public Health Microbiology with areas of specialisations including, Water Microbiology, Water Sanitation and Safety, Water Safety Policy, Biotechnology and Food and Industrial Microbiology. “He worked as Quality Control Manager at Alateco Foods, Limited, Alimosho, Lagos, between 1995 and 1999 before joining the service of the polytechnic as lecturer II at its Ikosi Campus in 2000. He became lecturer 1 in 2003 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2008. He later became a principal lecturer in 2013 and chief lecturer in 2017. “Born on February 14, 1971, Olaleye served as the head of both Food Technology and Science Laboratory Technology Departments at various times.”