The Sultan of Sokoto and President General of Jamaatu Nasril Islam, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll, on Thursday said 76 people were killed in Sokoto by bandits in one day, saying most of the insecurity stories in Northern part of the country were not reported because the region lacked strong media presence. Abubakar, who is leader of Nigerian Muslims, disclosed this at the 4th Quarter 2020 meeting of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council in Abuja. Sultan of Sokoto The monarch said insecurity in the North had become so intense that people were afraid to travel short distances. 



See Also






Insecurity
Insecurity: Bandits Now Go House To House To Kidnap In North —Sultan of Sokoto
0 Comments
1 Day Ago He also revealed that the criminals visited houses to kidnap people. He said, “Security situation in northern Nigeria has assumed a worrisome situation. It is regrettable that no strong media platform could report this story to the world. “A few weeks ago, over 76 persons were killed in a community in Sokoto in a day. I was there alongside the governor to commiserate with the affected community. “Unfortunately, you didn’t hear these stories in the media because it’s in the north. We have accepted the fact that the north doesn’t have strong media to report the atrocities of these bandits. “People think north is safe, but that assumption is not true. In fact, it’s the worst place to be in this country. Because bandits go around in the villages, households, and markets with their AK-47. They stop at the market, buy things, pay and collect change, with their weapons openly displayed. These are facts I know because I am at the centre of it. “I am not only a traditional ruler, but I am also a religious leader. So, I am in a better place to tell the story. I can speak for the north in this regard because I am fully aware of the security challenges there. We have to sincerely and seriously find solutions to the problem, otherwise, we will find ourselves soon, in a situation where we would lose sleep because of insecurity. “As religious leaders, we must promote peace, love, unity, and tolerance among our followers. We will discuss all these issues at the close door session of the meeting and possibly come out with strong suggestions for government.”