A survey sponsored by the Russia Direct Investment Fund has claimed that respondents from Nigeria and 10 other countries were open to receiving COVID-19 vaccine shots. The study, which interviewed 12,000 persons across Africa, the Middle-East and Asia, indicated that the participants were also open to testing out the untried genetically engineered virus known as Human Adenoviral Vector platform, which Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine was built on. aacomtr RDIF said in its release that nine out of every 10 respondents were willing to take shots of any vaccine produced from an adenoviral vector. According to Moscow’s Sovereign Wealth Fund, over 4,800 of the participants knew about the country’s Sputnik V vaccine before the survey. “The overwhelming majority of participants in the study are positive about vaccination against coronavirus (73% of those surveyed),” RDIF said while reeling out the findings of the study. “Almost half of the survey participants (44%) have heard about the Russian Sputnik V vaccine,” it added. According to the fund, among those, who have heard about the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, the percentage of those ready to be vaccinated was even higher – more than 80 per cent of respondents. Russia claimed that, “Russia as a vaccine manufacturer is the most highly trusted, with 21% of the votes, surpassing the USA at 15% and China at 13% among the first-choice countries named by respondents. “In terms of the total number of mentions among the most trustworthy countries (each respondent named three countries), the leaders were the United States, Russia and China with 45%, 40% and 32% of the total votes, respectively.” Although virology experts across the world say genetically engineered vaccines are the best shot at protecting mankind from COVID-19, its history is not so suggestive of that fact. Adenoviral vectors have so far been tested against tuberculosis, HIV/AIDs and malaria – pathogen-based diseases that hide in cells and have failed. A variant was also developed by a Chinese company, CanSino, to handle Ebola but its phase two clinical trial test found the vaccine to be ineffective. Asides from Sputnik V, Pfizer has announced positive outcomes from its vaccine trial. The latest data from the American firm, which has a checkered history in Nigeria, said its vaccine is 95 per cent effective and protects 94 per cent of persons over 65. Several other companies including American firm Moderna, have also released positive data on their tests. Both vaccine results from Pfizer and Moderna do not say how long a person, who receives doses of their shots would stay immune, however.