Former Nigerian Ambassador to Thailand, Ahmad Nuhu Bamalli, has received staff of office and installed as the 19th Emir of Zazzau. Bamalli was appointed on October 7 to succeed Shehu Idris, who died in September after reigning for 45 years.  The diplomat is said to be the first Emir from the Mallawa Ruling House in 100 years. Speaking after his installation, Bamalli said there was much work to be done in the service of the people of Kaduna State. He said, “I reach out to you to work in the spirit of the brotherhood we share in Islam as well as that we share through the many blood connections between our clans. There are many societal issues that we wish to help our people surmount, this can only be effectively achieved through the concerted efforts of us all. “I would further like to appreciate the Kaduna State Government for selecting me as Emir following consultations with the Kaduna State Council of Chiefs.” He noted that the occasion was auspicious in more ways than one, noting that his installation date marks 100 years since Mallam Aliyu Sidi Abdul-Qadir was deposed as Emir of Zazzau by the British. “I have always taken a great interest and have a deep commitment and strong appreciation for the traditions and history of Northern Nigeria, which, like my late father, Magajin Garin Zazzau Mallam Nuhu Bamalli, I have endeavoured to promote at every opportunity. "There is no greater time to enhance and promote the institution of traditional leadership than as an Emir. We therefore make a pledge of our intention to continue the good works of all our predecessors, most notably the latest Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris,  whose long reign of close to 46 years brought enormous changes and development to the Zazzau Emirate. “I intend to build on his legacy as well as adapt methodologies to reflect modern times, by embracing technology and communication in order to keep up with the rapid changes taking place all around us. We intend to do this without losing the essence of our traditions and practices,” he added.  HH Ambassador Ahmad Nuhu Bamalli has taken the oath of office and been presented with the Staff of Office as the 19th Emir of Zazzau by Malam Nasir @elrufai pic.twitter.com/Ug4lj958JZ 