The trial of Eromosele Adene, a young man arrested in his home in Lagos by the police for participating in the peaceful EndSARS protest, has been adjourned to Tuesday. This follows a complaint by the magistrate, Mrs O. A. Salawu, over the large presence of the media and citizens, who came to witness the proceeding.  See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Police To Arraign #EndSARS Protester, Eromosele, In Lagos Court
0 Comments
9 Hours Ago During the arraignment, the police charged Adene for criminal incitement, cyber-stalking, conduct likely to cause breach of peace. Despite the fact that video of the police arresting Adene at his home went viral, the police told the court that Adene was arrested on the protest ground with exhibits caught on him. The police denied that Adene was taken to Abuja and returned to Lagos on Sunday night. The police approached the court for a remand order to keep him for 30 days pending conclusion of investigation. Speaking with SaharaReporters after the adjournment of the case, Tunde Jinadu, his counsel, berated the police for seeking an order to detain Adene for another 30 days after initial detention for nine days in Abuja and Lagos. He stated that the police should allow the court play its role in deciding the case against the activist. He said, "The court adjourned the application for remand till tomorrow. "We are surprised that having gone through what he has gone through from one police commissioner to another, from one cell to the other, regardless of not considering his health circumstances. "The police had concluded investigation in Abuja and file has been sent to legal. We are surprised that another remand is filed to court. "Why not charge the gentleman to court instead of going from one remand to another. 'We are even afraid that a remand order was not got in Abuja before he was detained for 10 days. "All these things are not too good for our democracy."  The Lagos Magistrate reputedly an @OfficialAPCNg sympathiser -O.A Salawu of court 4 Yaba just adjourned #FreeEromz matter till tomorrow 17th Nov on d flimsy excuse of being threatened by the presence of the media outfits Channels, AriseTv and others. @simplyEromz standing tall! pic.twitter.com/I7l0eNhaVg  Adene was arrested on November 7 at his home by a team of policemen. He was taken to Abuja for interrogation before he was returned to Lagos on Sunday night. The case is expected to continue on Tuesday for the court to rule on the 30-day remand request by the police. 