One of the participants in the #EndSARS protests and co-convener of #BringBackOurGirls advocacy group, Aisha Yesufu, has expressed happiness over the tenacity and resilience of Nigerian youth who protested against police brutality and extrajudicial killings in the country. She said she was proud of the protesters for not giving up the struggle. Aisha Yesufu, photographed in Abuja on Oct. 10, 2020.
Etinosa Yvonne "I don't speak for #EndSARS protest on what they do and what they are going to do, but all I know is that they are not giving up. I am so proud of them for that," the activist told SaharaReporters on Monday in Abuja. "Yesterday, I saw a group of them, including Sowore at Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport and also at police headquarters," she continued. "They just finished their meeting, and there was a zoom conference they had on the way forward. Most important is the fact that they are not giving up, and they are strategizing and changing their ways of engagement and their protest mode." Yesufu said she remained resolute despite the criticism, adding that her focus was to hold the murderous government of President Muhammadu Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo responsible and accountable. See Also






ACTIVISM
I’m Being Cursed In Mosques Over My Involvement In #ENDSARS Protest, Activist, Aisha Yesufu Says
0 Comments
3 Days Ago She said there was no regret for calling out the president over his incompetence, adding that she never cared whoever was in government. "If anybody has an issue with me for calling out the incompetence of this government, they have a job to do for a very long time because I am going to still call them out and whoever is in government. I don't care so far they don't do the right thing. I am going to call them out," she said. Another participant, Obianuju Iloanya, who spoke to SaharaReporters, said the movement had engaged in grassroots sensitization and awareness on their demands and why they were protesting. Iloanya said they had not given up on the struggle despite the coordinated attacks on their members, noting that they had started discussions with indigenous people, artisans, market women, students, tricycle and motorcycle riders across the country. She said that some government officials hired thugs to disrupt the peaceful protest which is aimed at calling on the Nigerian government to take proactive action against police excesses, corruption, impunity, insecurity, bad governance and injustice in the country. "We are not going to stop," Iloanya insisted. "They said our demands had been met. No, it has not. We will not stop until we get justice for the victims of SARS brutality and Lekki massacre. "We are going to come back but this time around we are coming with indigenous people, and there will be no option for them, and they can no longer hire thugs to attack us and disrupt our protest again."