Ondo State deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, has raised the alarm over an alleged plot to impeach him by members of the state’s House of Assembly on the instructions of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Ajayi, who made the allegation in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Babatope Okeowo, on Tuesday, further alleged that the sum of N10m had been given to each lawmaker for the hatchet job to be executed. He said he had only exercised his constitutional right of freedom of association in accordance with section 40 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 by moving the to the Peoples Democratic Party from the All Progressives Congress. Ajayi insisted that he had not committed any offence by taking the decision. 

Agboola Ajayi The statement reads, "The illegal impeachment move would be carried out through financial inducement of members of the Ondo State House of Assembly to the tune of N10m each. "At the moment, Ondo State House of Assembly complex has been besieged by men of the Nigeria Police, while parliamentarians that are known not to believe in the charade are being prevented from entering the complex. "We wish to state that the deputy governor is a tested politician of note, who is not unprepared for this type of kangaroo and infamous move from the desperate and drowning governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, and his group. 



See Also









Politics
Ondo Governor, Akeredolu, Fires All Aides Of Deputy, Ajayi, As Plot To Impeach Him Thickens
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago “Every person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with other persons, and in particular, he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his interests. "For the avoidance of doubt, we state unequivocally that the governor and his allies do not have and cannot muster the requisite majority in the House of Assembly for the removal of the deputy governor under the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 in any free, fair and transparent process. "We remain undaunted in the move to throw off the combined weight of those kneeling on the neck of Ondo State. Our state shall not be allowed to suffocate. "At the appropriate time, the people of Ondo State shall decide the right person, who will serve as the arrowhead of the bid to save the state from the nepotistic clique kneeling on her neck." Spokesperson for the Ondo State House of Assembly, Akogun Gbenga Omole, could not be reached for comments at the time of this report.  