Some concerned citizens of Ondo State have called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, and Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission to investigate the N4.3bn stashed in a ‘secret’ account by the state government. The fund had been regularly withdrawn and spent by the Govenor Rotimi Akeredolu administration without the knowledge of the state’s House of Assembly. The concerned citizens, who took to the Twitter to demand explanations from the government over the fund, said the anti-graft agencies should invite the state’s Account-General for questioning over the alleged financial impropriety. 

Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu Mr Ope Omoriwo, a Twitter user, said President Muhammadu Buhari should prove his integrity and stance against corruption by asking Governor Akeredolu to explain how the fund was spent without the knowledge of the Assembly. He said, “To prove to the world that our President (Buhari) still has integrity, he should help us tell our governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, to explain the OndoMissingFunds to the acceptability of the indigenes of Ondo State.” Another Twitter user, Mr Bibitayo said, “4.3billion was kept in a secret account for 10 years, the government of Akeredolu could not account for how the money got missing where is #OndoMissingFunds, EFCC must investigate.” 



See Also






Finance
N4bn Discovered Inside 'Secret' Ondo Government Account, Lawmakers Demand Explanation From Executive
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago Lending his voice to the matter, Kunle Wizeman Ajayi said, “Impunity is raining in the sunshine state. So this madness must be tackled state by state’ and locally. Am happy to join all people of conscience to demand that Governor Akeredolu publish the whereabouts of the #OndoMissingFunds now.” In his own tweet, Oluwagbenga Ajongbolo said the N4.3bn would have boosted the health sector of the state, adding that the EFCC must investigate the treasury of the Akeredolu government. He said, “Imagine the number of ambulances the interest on this money would buy. #OndoMissingFunds need close monitoring by EFCC.” 



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: How N4bn In ‘Secret' Ondo Government Account Was Uncovered, The Illegal Transactions Carried Out Without Authorisation
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago Tolu Babalaye, a lawyer in the state, said Governor Akeredolu had already committed an impeachable offence by spending the fund without the knowledge of the Assembly, adding that people of the state had the right to demand the whereabouts of the fund since it was discovered in a secret manner. Donald Ojogo, Commissioner for Information in the state, said the government had nothing to hide about the funds, stressing that the discovery was reflected in the records of the state for proper accountability and transparency.