As protests continue in against the death of George Floyd, the United Nations Secretary General, António Guterres, has been asked to ensure the global body takes decisive actions to stem the rising tide of racial discrimination. Nigeria’s leading labour and civil society coalition in a statement on Wednesday also expressed solidarity with the wave of protests spurred by the May 25 killing of 46-year old US citizen, George Floyd. Alliance for Surviving COVID-19 and Beyond (ASCAB) said in a position endorsed by its leaders including Chairman, Mr Femi Falana, the co-chairmen, President of Nigerian Labour Congress, Mr Ayuba Wabba, and President of the Trade Union Congress, Mr Quadri Olaleye, that the death of Floyd had further raised the need for the UN countries all over the world to rise in defense of the poor and vulnerable, who are at the receiving end of state brutality and oppression. ASCAB said racism was an international scourge that can only be defeated through the collective effort of all member nations. The statement released by ASCAB Secretary for Publicity, Mr Adewale Adeoye, reads, “We share in the grief of the families of Mr George Floyd of Houston who was killed in the most bizarre manner. The police officers became the enforcer of law, the judge and the executioner all within minutes. While such killings are not uncommon in developing countries, it is more worrisome that a country that lay claim to being the father of democracy can allow this to happen.” The coalition called on UN member nations to ensure ratification and enforcement of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. ASCAB urged countries to take joint and separate actions to bring an end to racism and all forms of discrimination. The statement added, “Humanity has passed through many difficult phases in history. The bottom line is that inequalities, racism and disrespect for the rule of law will continue to fuel public rage which might even take violent forms.”