Not less than 252 Nigerians were killed by both state and non-state actors in series of violence that occurred in May 2020. This was revealed in the latest life count report by the Civic Media Lab. Over 68 persons were also kidnapped in different parts of the country during the period under review. The report highlighted how non-state actors have continued to hugely contribute to the killings in the country. 

May 28th Sokoto Gunmen Attack The Northern part of the country has continued to experience deadly attacks, with many unsolved killings. About 70 per cent of the killings were perpetrated by bandits, who ravaged villages and communities in Katsina, Sokoto and Kaduna states.



See Also






News
Life Count: Police, Boko Haram, Herdsmen Kill 223 Nigerians In February 2020
0 Comments
3 Months Ago There seems to be a decline in the activities of Boko Haram in the country as they are being decimated and contained by the Nigerian military. According to the life count report, herdsmen and bandits were responsible for at least 185 killings. While herdsmen killed 50 persons with most of the killings happening in Kaduna, armed bandits were responsible for 135 deaths. Unfortunately, the police have yet to apprehend the herdsmen, who wreaked the havoc on the people. There was renewed communal and ethnic clash in Ebonyi, Adamawa, Taraba and Benue states, resulting in 14 deaths. Also, gunmen killed 19 persons in May, all in the Northern part of the country. On the other hand, state actors – police and soldiers – killed seven persons in Lagos, Abuja and Taraba. According to the demography, Sokoto recorded the highest deaths with 74 persons killed, followed by Kaduna (46 deaths), Katsina (37), and Borno (20). Director of CML, Mr Seun Akinfolarin, urged the Nigerian Government to further strengthen security agencies in the country to combat criminal activities resulting in avoidable loss of lives. See Also






Boko Haram
Life Count: Analysis Of The Deaths And Continuous Deaths Of Nigerians In A Non-War Zone
0 Comments
10 Months Ago