Action Democratic Party has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the amended electoral act into law to honour MKO Abiola and heroes of democracy. The party said this in its Democracy Day address as it posited that the amended electoral act would create room for a credible election in the country. “June 12, has become a symbolic date in the life of our nation, and the reasons, this date was set aside as a democracy day, not only to celebrate the great sacrifices by our hero pass, who fought tirelessly for the return of democracy, some are still alive, while some have transcend to the great beyond, their memories must live on, and the only way to make their effort count, is when all that they struggleed for becomes reality,” said Prince Adelaja Adeoye, National Publicity Secretary of ADP in a statement. “President Muhammadu Buhari should consider, as a matter of urgency, the signing of the amended electoral act, which will strengthen and give more credibility to the future polls. “For democracy which many patriots and our founding fathers, sacrificed hugely for, while some of them like the late MKO Abiola, eventually lost their lives in their quest to achieve a better and relatively stable political environment, after seizure by the military jackboots, to reflect in our nationhood, electoral process that will enhance democratic space must be strengthened,” Adeoye added. The party also charged President Buhari to spur into action as a former military general to end all killings by insurgents and bandits across Nigeria. “Nigerians voted for the President as a former military major general on the strength that within few months of his ascension to power, he would be able to crush every security threats in the country, but it is not too late to make it up to Nigerians in this regard,” Adeoye said. The party also called for the immortalization of the heroes of June 12 and those, who laid down their lives for its actualization, stating that those, who made our return to democracy possible must always be celebrated through the enhancement of the democratic space. ADP charged the Independent National Electoral Commission to as a matter of federal legislation be able to conduct free and fair elections, that will be technologically driven, as the world system is gradually changing. “There must be seamlessly voting, which must include e-voting, and work on making snatching of ballot boxes useless, with the use of e-screening and transmission of results from polling units to central server,” it added.