Advocacy group, Women Arise, has demanded the prosecution of an official of Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State, who assaulted a woman, Mrs Tolu Adesh, for refusing to part with N15,000 bribe. Adesh, who was arrested for allegedly flouting lockdown order, recorded the official demanding the bribe. The official identified as Mr Peter, was captured in a video slapping and even pushing down the woman’s phone before ordering that their tyres be deflated for refusing to pay N15,000.

Council Official Who Assaulted Woman According to the woman, she had gone out with her husband to get some items for her daughter’s forthcoming birthday when she was stopped by the officers. This afternoon, on my way to #justritestores in Ojodu to buy a bicycle for my daughter whose 7th birthday is in 2 weeks, A THREAD@OgbeniDipo @segalink @jimidisu @dabiodunMFR pic.twitter.com/upbRiEMhRR  Reacting to the video, President of Women Arise, Joe Okei-Odumakin, said the task force team should be disbanded as they do not behave like public servants. Okei-Odumakin said the apology of the LCDA boss was not enough. She said, “Motorists who are unfortunate to ply the vicinity of Ojodu-Abiodun will have a personal tale of woe to tell or know someone who has such tale to tell. It is like the officials of that office have been specially selected and specifically trained and commanded to brutalise and oppress motorists. “They do not behave like public servants at all as they usually see themselves as above the law. Their impunity rankles! Whatever remorse they show now will not last. “That office should be disbanded. The apology of the LCDA boss is okay but is not enough. Neither is suspension enough punishment for the bestiality displayed on camera by those officials.“The official who assaulted the woman in question must be dismissed from office. He must also be made to face the full  wrath of the law to serve as deterrence unto others like him. Conscionable Nigerians must, however, take note of Ojodu-Abiodun and constantly put the workers there under watch. “Every of their infractions must be duly and promptly reported and effective citizen action taken at all time to bring the offenders to book. Like it is said, the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. Again, like it is said, power concedes nothing, except we wrestle it from their oppressive claws.”