Rights activist, Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho, has submitted bank documents to expose the involvement of the Delta State Judiciary and Ministry of Women Affairs in child trafficking and illegal adoption. The evidence was submitted at the Benin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission where the matter is being investigated. SaharaReporters had reported how some officials of the ministry and Delta State Judiciary were accused in a petition of trafficking thousands of children from the state without following the adoption procedure. 

 Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho
 Ighorhiohwunu Aghogho The two government establishments were said to have connived in running a cartel in the sale and illegal adoption of children in the state in gross violation of the Child’s Right Act 2003 vis-a-vis the Delta State Child Right law 2008 and the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015. The documents obtained by SaharaReporters include the account details belonging to and currently being operated by the Delta State Ministry of Women Affairs for the alleged illegal adoption of children in the state. 



See Also






Scandal
Human Rights Activist Accuses Delta Judge Nominee, Emmanuel Dolor, Of Child Trafficking 
0 Comments
4 Weeks Ago The bank accounts said to be used for the transaction in the child adoption process include ECO Bank 2152023855, Zenith Bank 1011047631. Other evidence sighted by SaharaReporters include an ECO Bank deposit slip dated 20/3/2020, transaction number A57CHDP200802006 with same ECO Bank account details 2152023855 used in transactions for the adoption. When SaharaReporters contacted officer in charge of the investigation of the case for reaction, he asked our correspondent to come down to the office because he was not permitted to speak on phone on official matter. When SaharaReporters reached out to the Permanent Secretary, Delta State Ministry of Women Affairs, Mrs Oghenekevwe Agas for reaction on the evidence, she admitted that the ministry always issued application forms to prospective adopters after obtaining a court order. 



See Also






Free Speech
Activist Accuses Chief Judge Of Victimisation After Exposing His Involvement In Child Trafficking
0 Comments
1 Week Ago She also admitted that money was paid into the ministry's accounts to process adoption but said she cannot authenticate the teller and bank account numbers, that only the Director of Finance and Account was in best position to do that. Head of Protocol, High court of Justice, Asaba, Agbaragu Timothy, could not be reached for comments on the issue.