The crisis in the All Progressives Congress is set to take a new twist after the party moved its National Executive Committee meeting slated for Thursday to the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The meeting, which was initially scheduled for March 17, 2020, will now hold at the Villa to enable President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders take final decision on the challenges facing the party.  Sources within the APC hinted that Buhari may have endorsed Victor Giadom, who could be announced as the new National Chairman of the party on that day despite the forces against him in the group. The sources said Adams Oshiomhole had lost the backing of party leaders following his leadership tussle with Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, which led to the exit of the latter and his supporters from the APC. Giadom, who is said to have won the backing of President Buhari, has been at the centre of the crisis, parading himself as the new Acting National Chairman despite a court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Friday restraining him from doing so.



See Also






Politics
I’m New APC Chairman, Giadom Says In Letter To INEC
0 Comments
4 Days Ago Giadom was subsequently suspended by the state's chapter of the party over alleged acts of gross infractions of the APC constitution. But despite the hurdles before him, Giadom is said to have found favour before Buhari and may emerge the party's new chairman on Thursday if things go as planned. Recall that the whole crisis within the party started after Oshiomhole was suspended as a member of the APC by the party in Edo State. A Federal Capital Territory High Court in Jabi then ordered his removal from the party, a ruling backed by an appellate court. He has since been making frantic moves to reclaim his position in the party to no avail so far. A former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, a deputy chairman of the APC, who should have stepped into Oshiomhole's shoes, is currently on a life support machine in a Lagos hospital after being infected with Coronavirus.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Former Oyo Governor Ajimobi's Health Condition Worsens After Days In Coma, Now On Life Support Machine
0 Comments
1 Day Ago This has further fuelled the crisis in the party and paved the way for Giadom and others to jostle for the top position in the APC.