President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration had downgraded all security threats in the war against criminality and insurgency in the country. He made the claim in his Democracy Day broadcast on Friday. However, Buhari's claim comes amidst a fresh wave of attacks by Boko Haram insurgents in Yobe, Borno, Adamawa and renewed activities of bandits and killer herdsmen in Southern Kaduna, Katsina and Sokoto that has left dozens dead and hundreds more homeless and without hope. He said, "In the area of security, we remain unshaken in our resolve to protect our national infrastructure including on-shore and off-shore oil installations, secure our territorial waters and end piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. "Ending insurgency, banditry and other forms of criminality across the nation is being accorded appropriate priorities and the men and women of the Armed Forces of Nigeria have considerably downgraded such threats across all geo-political zones. "All the local governments that were taken over by the Boko Haram insurgents in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa have long been recovered and are now occupied by indigenes of these areas who were hitherto forced to seek a living in areas far from their ancestral homes. 



See Also






Politics
Full Speech: President Muhammadu Buhari’s Democracy Day Address
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago "The total collapse of the economies of these areas, which constituted a threat to our food security, has also been reversed with the gradual recovery of farming and other economic activities. "I regret recent sporadic incidents with tragic loss of lives in Katsina and Borno states as a result of criminals taking advantage of COVID-19 restrictions. Security agencies will pursue the perpetrators and bring them to swift justice. "I must implore state and local governments to revamp their intelligence assets so that the security agencies can nip in the bud any planned attacks in remote rural areas. I send my heartfelt condolences to all the relatives and communities affected."  See Also






Free Speech
I Am Committed To Rule Of Law, Free Press, President Buhari Says Despite Jailing Activists, Journalists And Critics
0 Comments
3 Hours Ago