Mr Femi Adesina is the chief scribe of the Ministry of Untruth, Aso Rock. Under him, Aso Rock has produced some whoppers in the last five years of Buhari’s administration. Adesina has gained immortality with “alternative facts.” Adesina’s big size easily accommodates his verbal cannon of insults, mendacity, miracle cures, self-aggrandizement, and self-pity. As an aggressive liar on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, he always turns up in an oversize conductor suit and a foul mood, often resembles a rabbit caught in headlights. He once described Buhari “as a new sheriff in town. A strict man. Disciplinarian. A man who detested corruption and all forms of evil acts.” But the evidence says otherwise. Buhari is slow and sluggish. He’s incoherent and indecisive. He’s unintelligent and uninspiring. He’s backward and brutish. He’s wicked and selfish. He’s nepotistical and nonsensical. He runs the country in a chaotic and clueless fashion. He’s not a disciplinarian. Not a strict man. He romances corruption. He’s an evil man. With his jaw dropping full of prodigy of illogical thinking, Adesina defends lies with lies. “Transparency and accountability. World over, he (Buhari) is known for this,” claims Adesina. With demonstrable lies, Adesina fires himself out of a cannon in the general direction of angry Nigerians. “And for Buhari, the law was supreme, and remains supreme,” argues Adesina. Where has Adesina been? What has Adesina been smoking? Ganja! What has Adesina been eating? Kulikuli! 

Femi Adesina Transparency? Accountability? Rule of law? What transparency? What accountability? What rule of law? Hogwash! Buhari became president May 29, 2015. He has violated over 40 court orders with utter disregard for transparency, accountability, the rule of law and human rights in the areas of freedom of expression, peaceful assembly, association, and access to information. In fact, his attorney general Abubakar Malami once boasted that the rule of law is what the authorities determine it to be. Few examples of Buhari’s unprecedented violent violation of court orders will suffice: Justice Hadiza Rabiu Shagari ordered the government to tell Nigerians about the stolen assets it allegedly recovered, with details of the amounts recovered. Justice Mohammed Idris ordered the government to publish details of the spending of stolen funds recovered by the successive governments since the return of democracy in 1999. Justice Idris also ordered Buhari to prosecute legislators in the National Assembly suspected of padding and stealing N481 billion from the 2016 budget. Justice Chuka Austine Obiozor, ordered the immediate release of details of payments of billions of Naira to all defaulting and allegedly corrupt electricity contractors and companies since 1999. Only last week, Nastura Ashir Shariff, Chairman of Board of Trustees of the Coalition of Northern Groups was arrested and detained for leading a peaceful protest in Katsina State demanding action from Buhari over the escalating spate of killings, kidnappings by bandits in the state. Adesina regurgitated lies after lies in blind slavish submission in defense of Buhari’s atrocities. The proximate causes of Adesina’s juvenile tantrum against fierce critics of Buhari is that Adesina’s lies are punctured by the daily horrors taking place in Nigeria. Every time Adesina struggles to put a human face on the evils of Buhari’s dictatorship, we see him being gradually swallowed by his faded conductor suit. As the country oscillates precariously between hope and despair, trauma and tragedy, freedom and failure, one thing is certain: our silence has an end. No matter how long, the will of the people will triumph. Meanwhile, we are stuck with Adesina the big idiot and with his bullshit lies for the next three years. Candido Johnson writes from FCT Abuja