I I can’t breathe I can’t breathe I can’t bre I can’t I can’t I. . . . .           * 2020: Black Lives Matter 1965: I AM A MAN * There are countless ways Of lynching without a rope * The casualties were fewer than we ever expected: 10 Persons & 1,000 Negroes * For every Black in college There are a hundred more in prison * So many centuries on, America still has a “Negro Problem” * My skin is my sin, Sings Bluesman with the wailing strings, My very life is an “underlying condition” For countless afflictions * And the Media Sage responds: Racism is America’s Original Sin Violence, its inalienable companion * There is a common crime in town: Breathing While Black (BWB) * Mr. George Floyd committed two cardinal crimes: He was Black He was big * Black Lives Matter Black Life Martyrs * Asked Louis Armstrong, the Smiling Trumpetman: What did I do to be so black and blue? II Black Life Martyrs, Their voices rise from their untimely graves:  Amadu Diallo, Eric Garner, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Walter Scott, Freddie Gray,  Botham Jean, Breanna Taylor, Philando Castille, Trayvon Martin, Ahmaud Arbery, George Floyd. . . . . Any Hall of Fame For Trophies from Police hunts? * To be and not to be To wallow in want in a sea of wealth To shout and not be heard To stand and not be seen To sow and never to reap To live all your life below the Law To be stopped and frisked stopped and frisked stopped and frisked stopped and. . . . . To be told countless times To forgive and then forget * Yess Sur, Yes Maa’m. . . . Put them at ease with your Negro smile Your low, low, bow and your high regard That cool façade is your saving grace The “Angry Black Man” is as good as dead * 911, 911,  911, 911 My name is Sue, Calling from my car in City Park There’s a big black male around Whose big dark shadow is menace to my sight Please send a cop; my life is at risk * Choke-hold, choke-hold Stranglehold and dash and dangle 400 years of knee-on-neck * Our Police know their oath: To serve & To protect * The Police Chief took a knee The Sheriff followed in tow Is this a genuine genuflection To Kaepernick’s treason* Or patronizing bribe of momentary appeasement? * And the Emperor snarls From the bunker of his White Castle Vowing “vicious dogs and ominous weapons” Rolling in guns to “dominate the streets” His unhappy nation now his “battlespace” * Black Lives Matter Black Life Martyrs * Asked Louis Armstrong, the smiling Trumpetman: What did I do to be so black and blue? * I can’t breathe I can’t breathe I can’t bre. . . . . I. . . . . June 7, 2020            Niyi  Osundare   

Niyi Osundare ------------------- *Colin Kaepernick, former American NFL quarterback, began the kneeling protest in 2016 to raise awareness about racism and violent  police treatment of African Americans. His act involved kneeling on one knee during the national anthem. He was roundly criticized for showing disrespect for  the American flag and the national anthem. Ironically, some police officers and public figures assumed this posture as a mark of solidarity – and appeasement – during the June 2020 nation-wide demonstrations against the police murder of George Floyd and other African American victims of police action,