Members of the civil right movement in Nigeria have continued to pay tribute to one of their courageous leaders, Ayodele Akele, who died on Tuesday in a hospital in the United States. Akele was part of the 1994 struggle for Nigeria's democracy and has since remained uncompromising, championing the cause of true democracy in Nigeria. The late Akele was a former Secretary-General of the National Conscience Party founded by late legal luminary, Gani Fawehinmi. Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, President, Women Arise, said the news of the demise of Akele hit her like a thunderbolt.

Late Akele She described him as "a revolutionary humanist par excellence", saying he stood for his convictions while sacrificing comfort and socio-economic benefits. She said, "He was a man that not even military torture in cell could break. A strong believer of socialism as an ideology. "He was one of the rare products of Gani Fawehinmi school of thought. He gave his all for the advancement and emancipation of Nigerian masses. "We are consoled by his legacy as we mourn his exit to the glory above. Sleep on as you join other veterans of the Aluta movement in paradise." Toyin Raheem, Chairman of Coalition Against Corruption and Bad Governance, described late Akele as a dogged fighter. He said, "A dogged fighter and human rights activist of good repute. May the Almighty God grant his soul eternal rest and give his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Adieu itu Baba ita." Right and constitutional lawyer, Femi Aborisade, said he was saddened by news of Akele's death. He stated that late Akele lived his life for the service of ordinary people. 



See Also









News
Renowned Labour Activist, Ayodele Akele, Is Dead
0 Comments
1 Day Ago He said, "Demise of an uncompromising class fighter: It is with deep pain in my heart to disclose the sad news I have just heard! My friend and comrade, Ayodele Akele, passed on today. Itu devoted his entire life to the service of ordinary people. We shall never forget you. Adieu!" Abdul Mahmud, Abuja-based lawyer, lamented the recents deaths of rights activists in the country with Akele being the latest of the fast depleting tribe. He said, "The tribe is depleting fast. Six weeks ago, it was Anyakwee Nsirimovu. Two weeks later, Durueke Uche. And now, Ayodele Akele. Farewell, militant soldiers of the people's causes. Rest in Power!" On his part, Adeolu Omoba said, "Rest in power, Comrade Ayodele Akele. You were a dogged fighter against oppression, exploitation and manipulation. "The fake progressives who undermined the genuine struggles daily expose themselves as brazen opportunists. Their bankruptcy vindicates you. Your legacy lives on." Also, Festus Keyamo, Minister of State, Labour and Employment, commiserated with the family of Akele, saying, "My deep condolences to the Akele family. He joined us in the defiant and radical movement we formed in 1994 called ‘National Conscience’ with Chief Gani Fawehinmi, SAN, SAM, GCON, as our leader. He later became the Sec-Gen when it transformed into a political party. Rest in peace." 