President of Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Shettima Yerima, has come under attack from the Supreme Forum of Yoruba Youth, who accused him of making an inflammatory and insulting statement. Comrade Femi Awogboro, National President of SFYY, in a statement said the submission of Yerima clearly portrays him as a puppet and someone, who wants to advance a course that notable Northern leaders are dissociating themselves from. Awogboro asked the AYCF President to withdraw his statement and apologise. He said, “Arewa Consultative Forum statement displays arrogance and high level of selfishness and insincerity possessed by the Northern group. It is important to remind Yerima and his group that this is Nigeria not the feudal North and any attempt to lay claim to the soul of an entity that we are all part of will be resisted by using all legal tools devoid of violence. 

Shettima Yerima “The statement is not only watery and baseless, but also lacks integrity and sincerity in its entirety. It is high time Yerima realized that the strength of democracy lies in its inclusiveness, it is a form of government that gives power to all, not a section of the country. So, any region that possesses megalomaniac traits is endangering the lofty ideals of democracy. “Any individual who is devising sordid means to be getting crumbs from greedy politicians, any jobless youth who wants to use politics as a means of scaling the wall of poverty should not use our multi-ethnic structure in a negative way to achieve that. 



See Also






Insurgency
Nigeria’s Northern Governors Have Turned Killings, Banditry Into Business –President, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Shettima
0 Comments
3 Weeks Ago “The submission of Yerima clearly portrays him as a puppet, histrionic and someone who wants to advance a course that notable northern leaders are dissociating themselves from. “Nigeria is a developing country, this status gives anybody that really wants to grow ample opportunities in different fields of human endeavours rather than thinking on how to become a political jobber and a willing tool in the hands of political shylocks. “As youths, we should eschew primordial and primitive tribal/regional sentiment, Nigeria needs a leader that can unite, build our economy, fight insecurity, reposition the almajiri system, fight thuggery and hooliganism. “We need someone with a track record in good governance not a leader whose bed in prison is just temporarily vacant.”