President Muhammadu Buhari has come under criticism for describing late Burundi's President, Pierre Nkurunziza, as a true patriot. In his tribute to the late president, who died on Monday, President Buhari wrote, “It is with profound grief and sadness that we received the news of the death of President Pierre Nkurunziza. “President Nkurunziza was a true patriot that steered the country through turbulent times with wisdom and foresight.” Nigerians thereafter slammed President Buhari for endorsing a tyrannical government and a dictator. Many also said he ignored the killings happening in the country while consoling others outside Nigeria. Nigerians advised him to pay attention to what was happening in the country especially killings in Katsina and Zamfara. @iSERVE2050 said, “No. He was not a true patriot. He was a brutal dictator who impoverished, incarcerated citizens unjustly, and abused fundamental human rights. “He may be mourned as a fellow African leader however outright lies about his legacy do Nigeria no good. May all his victims find justice.” @RadicalThinker7 said, “The lives of all the poor defenceless young and old northerners massacred and sacrificed by bandits, Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram every second in the North matter too, please. How long this intentional neglect of loss of lives shall continue? You all just don’t care about humanity.” @jrnaib2 said, “Have you not received the news of the Yantumaki district head that was killed by bandits? Are you even aware of the ongoing killings in your home town of Katsina? When last did you visit Katsina?” @official_chiks said, “Look at this man. You haven't even said anything about what is happening in your state and you're here tweeting this. He whose house is on fire does not chase rats.” @DaddyKunzy said, “He was a dictator and not a true patriot. He steered the government with high handedness.” @nee_dles said, “Why are you quick to respond to external affairs, sir? I’m not saying you shouldn’t sympathize with your friends but your country is a mess and when tragedies hit us, you wait for ages before you respond to it.” “Protest is going on in your backyard, Katsina, over insecurity due to incessant attacks and killings and you here telling us about how a tyrant was a true patriot. Abacha died on June 8, same as this Nkurunziza guy, does that not tell you something. Deal with insecurities in the country,” @IconicNino tweeted. @SaifTahir12 said, “It is with profound grief and sadness that almost every day, we receive the sad news that bandits and kidnappers attack and kill people in the North-Western part of our country. Our thoughts and prayers are always with those injured or lost their life as a result. We will never forgive your disappointment.” @arowolek said, “Sir, I know this is a diplomatic statement. He was a dictator and a sit-tight president who was responsible for thousands of deaths in Burundi for his political gains. Posterity will never forgive him.” Gabriel Mike said, “Have you ever expressed sorry for the thousands massacred in #Nigeria by #Fulani terrorists? First, mourn them before you mourn an old wicked man. When are you going to visit the areas where #Christians, #Jews, #IPOB Members and #Biafrans were/are massacred if you are really whom you claim?”