The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has said it has begun harmonising the production of ventilators developed across the country to conform with international standards in a bid to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Director-General of the organisation, Osita Aboloma, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Lagos following the unveiling of locally manufactured ventilators produced by Ilaro Polytechnic, Ogun. Aboloma was represented by the SON Coordinator, Ogun State Office 1, Mr Jerome Umoru, at the unveiling. The SON DG urged the various inventors to ensure compliance with ISO 5080601/2/12/3020 and Medical Electrical Equipment part 11 for clinical care. According to him, adherence to the standard will ensure ease during the process of conformity assessment and product certification. He added that the certification of locally produced ventilators, air purifiers and hand sanitiser machines would put the nation in its pride of place globally. He said, “We are partnering with the institute in ensuring that various machines produced in the country meet required standards so as not to end up on the shelves.” Aboloma further said that the standards body of the unification was also aimed at saving the nation’s foreign exchange spent on importation of ventilators to fight COVID-19. He urged private sector investment in such innovations to enable inventors go through the other stages of clinical trials and obtain the Nigerian Industrial Standard mark. He added, “In our effort to address the ongoing pandemic, we have diligently assigned officers to inspect the ventilators and alcohol-based hand sanitisers under production. “We have one common standard for each product. We want to ensure that what we are producing meets the standard and once it does, we will certify it. “We will also continue to monitor activities so that they do not rest in producing quality goods.” The SON boss revealed that in no distant time, consumers would be empowered through product authentication scheme to determine the quality and conformance of products at the point of purchase. He stressed that those without necessary certifications would be rejected. Responding, Rector, Federal Polytechnic Ilaro, Olusegun Aluko, said that possible partnerships with private sector could help boost the production of ventilators against the high cost of importation. Aluko explained that the institution had also designed a disinfectant cubicle (just like the security screening cubicles at points of entry in banks) that would disinfect anyone passing through it within a space of 20 seconds. He said that the invention was critical at a time when the government was planning to open up the economy. He said, “We also invented a multiple outlet of hand washing and sanitising machine. This will be useful in supermarkets, schools and other public places that accommodate crowds. “We want patronage from different sectors to deploy the machines to the wellness of Nigerians.”