His Excellency, Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola GCFR (Not Sworn-In), Hope’93 Headquarter No1 Moshood Abiola Crescent, Off Allen Avenue Ikeja, Lagos Nigeria. Our Ref: ACRI/HOPE’93/001 Date: 12th June, 2020.  ATTENTION. Dr. (Mrs) Doyinsola Abiola Your Excellency Sir, On behalf of our compatriots across the continent of Africa and the Africa Covenant Rescue Initiative (ACRI), we rejoice with Your Excellency's family, democrats, friends of Africa and all well-wishers on the posthumous awards of the highest honour in the Federal Republic of Nigeria (GCFR), which is a special award of excellence in honour of Heads of State and the official recognition as the winner of the historic June 12 general elections, a Pan-Nigerian mandate, which have been described as the freest and fair election with overwhelming acceptance across the length and breadth of Nigeria. That was the foundation of truth and unity that was truncated by the forces of darkness. As a personality of very strong character, conviction, deep Faith, and courage, I trust that you will be able to read this letter from the great beyond 'the spirit realms.' Otherwise, it will be kept in the HOPE 93' archive. Let me begin with the quotation of George Orwell "political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind." It is on this premises and foundation that I will try to enumerate a number of issues that needs to be put on record for posterity and history. After your untimely demise to the great beyond 'the spirit world' on that black day 7th July 1998 in the presence of some top-rated diplomats, including the American Assistant Secretary of States, Susan Rice, at the Akinola Aguda House, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Your Excellency Sir, you stood firmly on your resolves and defended the Pan-Nigerian people's mandate freely given to you; you paid the supreme prize for the democracy we are all enjoying today. Those who did not lift a finger or believe in the struggle paradoxically became the beneficiary of your struggle, particularly the elements of the political class of the last 20 years, those who ruled for sixteen years and did nothing to redress the injustice or attempt to recognize the popular Pan-Nigeria mandate freely given to you and those who took over and are doing little or nothing to imbibe and address the very reasons for which you presented yourself for public service. Thankfully, ACRI successfully engaged the 8th National Assembly 'parliament' to legislate in favour of June 12 as our Democracy Day celebration as against the junta's preferred May 29. June 12 was the harbinger of a series of good tidings that was brutally truncated by the reactionary forces. Unsurprisingly, the current gladiators and the bureaucrats manipulated the event, shut out ACRI, despite submitting a well thought out work-in-progress documents to very senior government officials with the hope of a greater unity. They made it look like it was their sole initiative; this is to let you know that nothing has changed, despite the sloganeering of change. Nigeria has officially been designated the poverty capital of the world, heavily polarized along ethnic and religious lines and almost a failed state:   Terrorism, kidnapping, and violent crimes; all happened after your demise. Things have rather gone from bad to worse: an overwhelming majority of our citizens cannot 'breathe', more than 50 million of our citizens have tested positive to "hungervirus" as a result of poor leadership, infrastructure decay, hospitals in total comatose, nepotism and many other undemocratic tendencies. Your boy 'Yele' has developed a very thick skin and firing. The African unity and reparation issues that you championed will be reactivated in the coming days through a concerted effort by patriotic Africans. Conclusively Your Excellency, the supreme prize you paid will forever be treasured and celebrated. Sleep on great African hero, great African soldier and the pillar of sports in Africa. Sleep well M.K.O, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that was not sworn in. Africa Covenant Rescue Initiative Richard O. Odusanya Convener 