Igbo socio-cultural group, Nzuko Umunna, has called on governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to immediately set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to unravel the immediate and remote causes of the extra-judicial killings that occurred on Sunday in the Emene area of the state. In a statement by Coordinator and Secretary of the group, Ngozi Odumuko, and Paschal Mbanefo respectively, Nzuko Umunna alleged that the constant killing of unarmed Igbo youth by security operatives was no longer acceptable and must stop.  The group noted that there were widespread reports that these extra-judicial killings took place when security operatives invaded a peaceful meeting of the youth, while the Enugu State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Abdurahman, conceded that many of the youth “escaped with bullet wounds and police have started tracking them”. The statement reads, “Nzuko Umunna views with shock and deep concern the extra-judicial killings that occurred on Sunday, August 23, 2020, at Emene, Enugu State involving Igbo youth and operatives of the Nigeria Police, Department of State Services and Nigerian Army. “We commiserate with all families that lost their loved ones in the latest bloodletting. We note with grave concern the constant killing of unarmed Igbo youth by security operatives. This is unacceptable and must stop. However, we urge Igbo youth to refrain from retaliatory attacks.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Many Feared Dead As IPOB, Security Operatives Clash In Enugu
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “It is noteworthy that extra-judicial killings are a violation of the right to life as enshrined in Section 33 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999; Article 4 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, and Article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. “Nzuko Umunna commends Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for his prompt visit to the scene of the extra-judicial killings. In particular, we urge the governor to set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to unravel the immediate and remote causes of these wanton killings including the exact number of victims, to bring the perpetrators to justice.” The group also requested the Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Priscilla Emehelu, to urgently convene a coroner’s inquest on the extra-judicial killings.  