Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa Speaker Lagos State House of Assembly, Nigeria Alausa, Ikeja.  Dear Mr. Speaker, Allegations of impersonation It has come to my attention that you officially referred to yourself as a lawyer and indeed have quoted with great exactitude your year of graduation from the Faculty of Law at Lagos State University and indeed the esteemed Nigerian Law School. It has also come to my attention that this claim has been severally alleged to be false. These allegations, if true, would suggest that the person occupying the exalted seat of the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly is in fact a liar, a fraud, a forger and an impersonator. Babatunde Gbadamosi Considering that the Lagos State House of Assembly is charged with making laws for the fifth largest economy in Africa, this would make your position completely untenable and the legality of every law you have passed, in this term and your previous one debatable. These grave implications for my state, where I pay my taxes religiously, and even the idea that my taxes that I toil daily to pay may have been used to fund a criminal, give me no choice but to ask you to come clean on this question with absolute finality, or resign from that seat with immediate effect, as doing otherwise amounts to deliberately dragging the office of the speaker and indeed the entire legal profession into serious disrepute.  I received some of my classmates from Nigerian Law school class 2008-09 who paid me a solidarity visit to dispel what they read on social media.I am not perturbed by the actions of those tale bearers who feel aggrieved by my job as a legislator. I truly appreciate your visit. pic.twitter.com/pr3ikC8UzH  Let us agree that these people are your classmates. Are you saying you graduated from the Nigerian Law School and was called to the bar? Are you a lawyer sir? Of course you know I dropped out of the Law program at LASU, but would never dare pretend to be a lawyer. I urge you to answer this question definitively with the urgency it demands, or resign with immediate effect. Please remain assured of my highest consideration. Babatunde O. Gbadamosi, Lagosian.