MEMO To: The Fools Ruling Nigeria From: Bayo Oluwasanmi Subject: Lance Corporal Martins Idakpini And Democracy 101 Tope Akinyode, the attorney of detained Lance Corporal Martins Idakpini, has indicated that he’ll initiate proceedings for contempt against Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, and Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, for refusing to release Martins on bail as ordered by the court. Martins was arrested and detained over a viral video in which he complained that soldiers have no weapons to fight Boko Haram terrorists. We live in a time and in a Nigeria we have never lived before with fools ruling the country. Speaking of fools ruling the country, I mean people who lack intelligence, direction, and sound judgement to manage the affairs of a country. Because you lack intelligence, direction, and sound judgement, you have profoundly demonstrated that you don’t understand the meaning of democracy. Because of your abysmal failure in how democracy works, you have deliberately or ignorantly substituted dictatorship for democracy. This has resulted in arbitrary arrest and detention of hundreds of Nigerians who are simply exercising their constitutional rights and civic responsibilities. Nigeria is now in full blown dictatorship. I believe it will amount to dereliction of duty on my part as a patriotic citizen if I failed to instruct you on Democracy 101 and why it is illegal for you to continue to detain Martins. Bayo Oluwasanmi To you fools ruling Nigeria in Aso Rock, National Assembly, the Attorney-General, Director SSS, Inspector-General of Police, the Chief Justice of the Federation, your lack of understanding of what democracy means, shows you’re intelligently disabled, morally depraved, uneducated, primitive, barbaric. To summarize, here’s what democracy 101 means: Supreme power lies with the people. Democracy requires free and fair election.Democracy requires respect for law and minority opinion. Government must respect the law. Democracy means freedom of speech, freedom of press, freedom of association and freedom of assembly. Democracy respects individual’s rights. State must always protect its individuals whose rights are endangered by the actions of the government and others. In democracy, minorities should not have their basic rights disrupted by the ruling majority. Government must respect democratic procedures. The judiciary must be independent. Freedom of judiciary is an essential feature of democracy. Judiciary must always be free from any resistor of the executive or the legislature. Judges must be truthful and should deliver justice impartially. We are tired of your noise and nonsense. We are tired of the poverty and penury you foisted on us. We are tired of your lunancy and looting. We are tired of your blindness and blankness. We are tired of your crude insanity the way you operate a representative democracy. Now that you know what democracy 101 is, and how it works, you have no right to continue to hold up Martins in detention. Obey democracy, obey the laws of our land, release Lance Corporal Martins today! I hope the tutorial has been helpful.