Nigerians on social media are reacting to the video of late Senator Kashamu Buruji seeking forgiveness from billionaire businessman, Chief Kessington Adebutu, shortly before his death. Kashamu, who spoke in Yoruba, pleaded with the businessman to forgive him for any wrongdoing. Adebutu on his part accepted his forgiveness and also asked Kashamu to withdraw all lawsuits he filed against him to show he is serious in his bid to seek forgiveness.  Kashamu died on August 8 due to COVID-19 complications.   Many Nigerians however, attacked Adebutu for intentionally releasing the video, which was supposed to be a private conversation between the duo. “Godfather, I was vexed to my bone marrow after listening to that show of shame. Ashamed not on the part of Buruji because at this point he was desperate to regain his health. But on the part of those, who filmed this telephone conversation and made it available to the public,” a Twitter user said. “He has done his part and gone. It's a great privilege he got there to have reconciled with those he had wronged. “If the video was to tarnish him, then it is left with them. They should pray they have the opportunity he had to restitute before death. Many are not privileged to do that,” another user of the social networking platform said. “Clearly, somebody else in the room with Baba Adetubu was the one recording this conversation (with or without the old man’s permission). It is that person that has leaked this video clearly because the video is not on Baba Adetubu’s phone which he was holding as far as we can see,” @GbolaGbadabosi wrote. According to @Waleadebadmus, “Kashamu has done what is honourable to seek forgiveness before he passed on but it is unfortunately that Agbalagba to se lagbalagba too bad.” @OdunfaofLagos wrote, “You don’t teach people how to fight their battles, do you know how much Buruji Kashamu has denied and dent this man’s image using the media while he was alive? “Y’all don’t want to speak evil about the dead because you’re scared of ghosts or culture even if he was a total a…ole.” Kashamu was wanted in the United States for drug-related offence and was the subject of an extradition request by America until his death. He contested for governorship in Ogun State in 2019 under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party but lost. A former Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo, said while Kashamu’s death was “sad”, his life and history left lessons for all. He added that Kashamu during his lifetime used the manoeuvre of law and politics to escape from facing justice on alleged criminal offences in Nigeria and outside Nigeria.