The police in Ekiti State have arrested a middle-aged man simply identified as Femi for allegedly raping a teenager. Femi was arrested after he also abducted the girl and hid her for three days in an isolated location. He was said to have committed the crime at the Ajilosun area of the state before he was eventually arrested.  The suspect was apprehended alongside 18 suspected criminals involved in various forms of crimes. Tunde Mobayo, Commissioner for Police in Ekiti, who paraded the suspects in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, said they were all arrested following intelligence reports. Mobayo said the suspect lured the victim into his apartment and forced the girl to take a beverage mixed with hard drugs. He said, “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to have committed the crime by forcing the victim to drink a beverage already mixed with hard drugs through which she lost her consciousness for three days and he had carnal knowledge of her." The Commissioner of Police went on to reveal that the others arrested for various crimes including cultism and robbery were found with dangerous weapons. He said, “On the 09/08/2020, five suspects were arrested and confessed to being members of the Black Axe (Aiye) secret confraternity at Ikere-Ekiti, during initiation rites at the scene of the arrest. They include Ojo Ademola, Fatuki Tosin, Sani Mohammed, a.k.a. Tom-tom, Fagbehingbe Timilehin, Ayodeji and Arowosegbe Okiri. “The command recovered various items like Beretta pistol, two Dane guns, one wooden carved gun, one wooden mask, two cutlasses, charms, battle axe and a carton of Hi-mobile phone, phone accessories, different tile, communication recharge cards. “A gang of masked men numbering four robbed their victims at gunpoint and blocked Aisegba/Ilumoba expressway and stole cash, one HP laptop computer valued at N80,000 and later we arrested one of the gang members, Solomon Alexander.” He added that all suspects would be arraigned in court for prosecution upon completion of investigation. 