Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla, former Chairman of the Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, is among top Nigerians named on the list of most wanted persons by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission. Alongside Obono-obla, others on the list include Dr Lawrence Majekodunmi Ayodele, Chief Medical Director of Federal Medical Centre, Ido-Ekiti, Ekiti State; and Onamusi Daniel Onadeko, a former House of Representatives member. Full list: Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla Mr Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla, former Chairman of the Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, is hereby declared wanted by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission for alleged violation of the Corrupt Practices and other related offences Act 2000. Mr Tony Aiyejina Mr Tony Aiyejina is wanted for allegedly impersonating the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, and for defrauding an unsuspecting citizen of the sum of N2.5m by promising to secure a federal appointment for her. Mr Aiyejina initially demanded N10m from the victim and requested that it should be deposited into his United Bank For Africa account. His address, according to his bank record, is No 15 Jose Martins Street, Line 2, Asokoro, Abuja. Dr. Lawrence Majekodunmi Ayodele Dr Lawrence Majekodunmi Ayodele is declared wanted for alleged executive recklessness, financial fraud, gross embezzlement and abuse of office during his tenure as Chief Medical Director of Federal Medical Centre, Ido-Ekiti, Ekiti State. Ayodele is from Ekiti State and his last known address was Federal Medical Centre, Ido-Ekiti, Ekiti State. Muhammadu Sagiru Umar Mr Muhammadu Sagiru Umar is wanted by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission in connection with swindling intending Pilgrims of Nasarawa State to the sum of N11,550,000:00 in 2015. Umar is an indegene of Azara Village of Awe Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. He was born on June 1, 1973 and worked with Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, Lafia, before absconding from duty in February 2017. Olude Adeniyi Lateef and Dada Olatunji Mr Olude Adeniyi Lateef and Mr Dada Olatunji, are wanted in connection with issues bordering on corrupt demand by persons and using office or position for gratification contrary to Sections 10 and 19 of the ICPC Act 2000. Mr Olude Lateef, an indigene of Ogun State, was born on September 28, 1985 (33 years old). He is dark in complexion, 1.68m tall, and speaks Yoruba. He is currently a staff of the Federal Fire Service (Kano State Command). His last known address is 15, Daniel Street, Egbeda, Lagos State. Mr Dada Olatunji is a former Assistant Controller-General, who was dismissed from the Federal Fire Service in 2015. Mrs. Gladys Aginwa Mrs Gladys Aginwa is wanted in connection with issues bordering on fraud. Mrs Aginwa is currently the Managing Director of Smiles and Light Ltd, and her last known address is 13A, Adediran Street, Magodo Phase II, Lagos. Mr David Akile Mr David Akile is wanted in connection with issues bordering on fraud. Akile, an indigene of Benue State, is dark in complexion and was born on December 15, 1976 (41 years old). His last known address was Zone E, Mashafa Road, Mpape, Abuja, FCT. Onamusi Daniel Onadeko Onamusi Daniel Onadeko is wanted in connection with issues bordering on fraud. Onadeko, a former House of Representatives member and an indigene of Ogun State, is dark in complexion and was born on June 20, 1960 (57 years old). His last known addresses was Plot 514 Anwalu Close, 7th Avenue, Gwarimpa Estate, FCT, Abuja.