 A senior Nigerian Army officer, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, who headed Operation LAFIYA DOLE and spearheaded the fight against Boko Haram terrorists in the country’s North-East region, has reacted to his redeployment to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre as Senior Research Fellow by Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Yusuf Buratai. The redeployment of Adeniyi and over 50 senior officers was announced in a statement on Tuesday. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Adeniyi was removed as commander of Operation LAFIYA DOLE for revealing in a viral video that troops fighting Boko Haram terrorists lacked weapons and credible intelligence to execute their mission. FLASH: @HQNigerianArmy Removes General Adeniyi Who Disclosed Weakness of The Military Against Boko Haram In Leaked Video pic.twitter.com/7B2JZC5fwC  In the viral video, Adeniyi was seen standing together with his men on the battle field and lamenting how the terrorists shelled their positions with heavy artillery and mortar bombs during an ambush where they recorded heavy casualty. He disclosed that they lost several soldiers during the mission due to wrong intelligence provided by military authorities. Reacting shortly after his redeployment on Tuesday, Adeniyi disclosed that the viral video was leaked by his orderly and his friend. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigerian Army Removes General In Viral Video Asking For Weapons To Fight Boko Haram
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago In a message to some of his soldiers, he said that he had no regret over the leaked video because he served well and defended Nigeria’s territory with commitment. He said, “I am posted and also a happy man. Nobody should send any long pitiable message to me. “I have not failed, nor led irresponsibly. I have demanded your best which you gave. “Video meant for ASA leaked by my orderly and his friend could not have been helped. For even that there is nothing to be bitter about. “We all had fun fighting Boko Haram together. God bless you.”