Bayo Oluwasanmi Last week, Omoyele Sowore, the pro-democracy activist, who is on restricted bail in Abuja, alerted the world via his Facebook page that Buhari plans to re-arrest and detain him again. In what sounds much like a distress call, Sowore said: “Folks, it is important to inform you that we are facing some unusual circumstances and the days ahead might be very tensed and difficult, but we will conquer.” “The plan,” continues Sowore, “is to obtain a court order and then send soldiers to shoot up my residence in Abuja for claiming that I resisted arrest with armed colleagues. If I am arrested alive, they would take me to a military barracks in Abuja to be tortured and or infected with COVID-19. I am not raising the alarm to scare anyone, it is to inform our compatriots that we should brace for difficult days ahead.” Buhari’s new plan to illegally take Sowore back into custody is a retaliatory move. SaharaReporters had broken the news that Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, had contracted Coronavirus. As expected, Buhari became furious and angry by the story. In his characteristic tyrannical, egomaniacal, and demonical possession, Buhari instructed the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court of Nigeria to issue detention order for Sowore. Buhari’s regime is tinted with a long list of horrendous wickedness well known and well documented that it needs no rehashing. What crime did SaharaReporters commit by reporting that Abba Kyari tested positive to COVD-19? What’s so secretive or so special about it that Buhari would want Sowore arrested for a story that was true? Was it not reported that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, the wife of Canadian Prime Minister, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, and many celebrities from different parts of the world were Coronavirus positive? Buhari knows the trumped case of treason against Sowore cannot stand the litmus test of a criminal justice trial. But then, Buhari continues to devise unconstitutional means to get Sowore. Given his record as a blood thirsty dictator, I believe Buhari is bent on killing Sowore. That is why he has made Sowore the target of his Satanic cruelty and wants him infected with COVID-19. Why has Buhari elected to be an evil president? I believe Buhari is an evil president because his moral standard is the lowest of the low of any president in the world. His style of governance is sheer brute recklessness. A sadist to the core, Buhari thrives in wickedness and injustice which is why he wants to torture and infect Sowore with COVID-19. His mind is seared. Buhari is without conscience. I keep asking myself: Why is Buhari in rebellion against the office he contested four times before he finally won? Why is he always in retreat from the duties and expectations of his office? Why does he  deceive and divide Nigerians? Why does he regard the responsibilities of his office as unnecessary burden? Why is he behaving and acting toxic, narcissistic, sadistic, and aversive? Why does he hate with passion non-Fulani ethnic groups? Why does Buhari thinks is in power? To torment, torture, oppress, suppress, and kill citizens? Why is he so cold and stone deaf to common sense, logic, and wisdom? Why is Buhari so heartless? What does Buhari gain from being a sadistic president? Seriously, is Buhari human? Does he have feelings? Does he really give a damn what goes on in the country? What does he want from Nigerians? What is Buhari’s problem? Why has he chosen to be a masquerade that shadows his ill intentions beautifully? These are questions that agitate the minds of Nigerians who put him in Aso Rock. Buhari has pushed Nigerians to the abyss. Our faith has grown dim. Our hope has well-nigh ceased to illuminate the future. Death is a dread mystery, beyond is uncertainty and gloom. We sit in the shadow of death unsolaced. With longing eyes we seemed lost and gone. We are not sure when the darkness will be dispelled and the mystery behind Buhari’s reign of wickedness will be made plain. The deception of sin had reached its height in the country. Buhari has activated all agencies of ancient evils that deprave the souls of Nigerians. Nigerians have chosen a ruler who chained them to his car as captives. Bewildered and deceived, they are moving on in gloomy procession toward ruin - to death in which there is no hope of life, toward night to which comes no mornin. Buharivirus is the greatest pandemic in the history of Nigeria. The days ahead remain dark, dangerous, and deadly!