  A group, Concerned Nigerians, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order an end to the harassment of deposed Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi. According to the group, the arrest and banishment of Sanusi to Nasarawa State was an infringement on his fundamental human rights especially the freedom to associate, visit and live anywhere of his choice in Nigeria. The former Central Bank of Nigeria governor was on Monday dethroned by the Kano State Government following series of misunderstanding between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and him. The government claimed that Sanusi was removed for displaying disregard for laid down rules. However, in its letter to President Buhari, Concerned Nigerians said that Sanusi had been unfairly treated and should be accorded his freedom as guaranteed by the constitution. Convener of the group, Deji Adeyanju, said, “We are greatly concerned over his (Sanusi) arbitrarily arrest and detention as this negates all constitutional provisions on the right to liberty, peaceful assembly and association, freedom of movement and freedom from discrimination. “The arrest and detention after dethronement carried out by Kano State is illegal and unconstitutional. “Recall that banishment and deportation of a deposed king has been declared by our courts to be unconstitutional. “We refer you to the case of ‘Government of Kebbi State vs. HRH Mustapha Jokolo (2013)’ where the Court of Appeal condemned and declared that banishment and deportation of a deposed king is unconstitutional. “We believe that as in the case of Gwandu Emirate above, Mallam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi has been unduly and wrongfully denied his constitutional rights to liberty, to freely assemble and associate with other persons including the people of Kano State and move freely throughout Nigeria and also to reside in any part thereof. “We call on you to use your good office to immediately direct security agencies to respect his rights and release him accordingly. The world will be keenly watching Nigeria on this.”