Wale Babalakin Re: Babalakin obsession with........ My attention has been drawn to a sponsored treatise by an unknown Alabi Azeez of a phantom online magazine codenamed Unilag Vanguard. The decision of the writer to launder the image of his paymaster is not of interest to me. However, he goofed big time when he chose me as an object of vilification and insults. He wrote so much negative attributes, about my person, which are nothing but falsehood. I want to say here that it was a case of applying his rights to free expression too far by engaging in deliberate falsehood. None of his claims in soiling my character can stand. Azeez laboured to paint Prof Ogundipe as a saint, who has done wonderfully to promote excellence in Unilag. But the same professor refused to respond to the allegations of fraud levelled against him by Dagari report and sub committee on finances. The report has it as how the Vice Chancellor bought a Toyota Avensis car selling for N10m for N26m, travelling 32 times within 24 months at an average of N3m per trip, renovation of three buildings with N100m; the distribution are as follows; Vice Chancellor's lodge N47m, bursar's apartment N43m, and immediate-past registrar's lodge N20m. Most of the spendings were far above the approval limit allowed the Vice Chancellor, which is N2.5m. This is flagrant breaking of the extant rules of the university council and by extension of the Federal Government. The VC is yet to respond to allegations of contract splitting, over-invoicing by the cleaning firms who served as conduit for draining the university's financial resources. The disclosure that the university management, under the purview of the VC, has hidden the true financial position of the university from the Governing Council, is an act of insubordination, abuse of privilege, position and power. Over these records of fraud allegation, to which the VC has failed to respond, as to clear his name, the council ought to send him on an administrative leave to give way for proper investigation of these strong allegations of fraud and financial impropriety to be carried out. If this is not forthcoming, a petition shall be forwarded to both EFCC and ICPC for the Vice Chancellor and his cohorts to face justice. On this note, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Toyin Ogundipe, should within 21 days from today, do the needful by responding to these allegations otherwise the Presidency, through the office of Chairman of PACAC, and relevant anti-corruption agencies will be notified. The hidden largesse is far in excess of N9.7bn. The council should employ professional firms of international standard to audit the account of the university. On SSANU land and the alleged impeachment, both issues are before the industrial court in Ikoyi, Lagos, for determination. Any interested party should apply to be formally joined, through their attorneys. It would interest Azeez to learn that the hordes of those who proclaim wrong doings in SSANU have failed to come to court to prove their allegations. If Azeez has any panel report on SSANU land and impeachment, he should feel free to make such documents available through his lawyers for proper litigation on the matter. Im not given to responding to faceless writers but as my integrity was painted in bad light, I owe myself to respond as to promote balance and fairness. Also to check spread of falsehood and half truths. There's also the need to let the people that are embezzling our money know that at any time we can dictate the direction of the gate or where the pendulum swing if they refuse to choose reconciliation which we are sincere about. 