 Abdullahi Moukhtar, an In-law to Mamman Daura, is one of three staff of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, that tested positive for Coronavirus, SaharaReporters can confirm. It was also gathered that the Presidency had been hiding the fact from the public in order to avoid Moukhtar from being stigmatised and persons he had been in contact with in recent days to panic. Daura is a nephew to Buhari and one of the most influential members of Aso Villa cabal. Recall that President Buhari's wife, Aisha, had in December 2019 accused Daura of using Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu, against the first family. 



See Also






Politics
Aisha Buhari Attacks Husband’s Media Aide, Garba Shehu, Accuses Him Of Working Against President’s Family
0 Comments
3 Months Ago Also recall that SaharaReporters had on Monday exclusively reported that Kyari was gravely ill and had in fact contracted Coronavirus. The next day on Tuesday, SaharaReporters also broke the story of three of Kyari's staff testing positive for the deadly virus. 



See Also






PUBLIC HEALTH
Buhari’s Chief Of Staff, Abba Kyari, Tests Positive For Coronavirus, Confirms SaharaReporters Story
0 Comments
5 Days Ago On Saturday, it was discovered that Moukhtar, who was assigned to Kyari by Daura, is one of the three persons infected by Buhari’s Chief Of Staff. Moukhtar is a Special Assistant to Kyari, who was assigned to him by Daura. On Friday, top foreign diplomats in Nigeria had warned that Coronavirus cases in the country could rise to over 10,000 in the coming weeks especially because at least 5,000 persons in contact with infected individuals were on the loose in the country. Western countries are already evacuating their citizens from Nigeria as a result of the continued spread of the virus. So far, the Nigerian Center for Disease Control has tested less than 200 persons in the country -- far lower than the number of persons with suspected symptoms of the pandemic, according to experts. At the moment, Nigeria has at least 97 confirmed cases of Coronavirus and one recorded death.