  The titans that chameleon into vultures Break your beaks upon our mountainous natures How swift the ticking robber lurks Around your redwoods, and peddlings quirk Why must the parrot cease to air The pristine courage, the mother of fear? The crowns that wear the bench’s sole Seek not to mend our transducer soul The sleuth bearer of unseen contents How long will the papers taste of torments? The frizzling cords choke the white lungs And the black flesh are stabbed by dumb prongs  The thrones that quizzed our three days personage To beguile us into a haunting sacrilege That we might say the cup should pass o’er us For fetching the Hippocrene for our legal verse Arrest our noble labour into the glasshouse scheme Why this blaring over unknown, innocent victims?  The knells that silence broken voices In wanton tolls from sceptered places Infringe our deific stereo tutelage Against some stainless snatchers of that privilege Teacher, show us the labyrinth away From the ambush of imperious stay.  Shush! We are seated at Alphabeta Like a new pupil. Sister Cosset us to learn this little rhyme And absorb the simple lilting line Composed in the smearing synagogue Of shrewd and holy pedagogues  We are the Hermeses of grief Stuck in strict letters brief We are like the homeless orphans Free slaves of waiting golden bars Fear is the ink in our deaf pen Talking like the Agidigbo drum, five scores and ten.  Ye heads that through our suffering lie On your mourning cosy couch by and by Your ménage leaned by the tyrant’s folded arms Deploy your strongest thoughts against lifeless harms Tutor your tongues lightly lightly to tell The o’erlord, “Thou must quench the raging hell”.  Employ thy connate will to useful toil Thou ought not short thy power to savage council foil Untame your speech amid inventors of forlorn stories Brace us, cosmic forces and timid houses Upon an honest man’s fortune. Awake Into the morn that shapes your restless stake.  Have you heard the sounding timbrel? She is a dumb folk among her kindred Will the lyricist sing without his lyre If not to put this friend on a wise trial? Our priests you fly your preying kite Will you hear us sing in that silent night?  Break thy scythe, ye untamed beasts Tear your predatory nets like wasted sheets Ye ageless hunters of Bitter tongues Go chide, with your gothic songs Break thy scythe, let the tulip grow Keep those claws, for the cock will crow.  Emmanuel Ayoola Babalola is a Nigerian Campus Journalist, Essayist and Political observer. babalolaemmanuel16@gmail.com