The Edo State governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said his second term ambition is not worth spilling the blood of anyone, reassuring that the Saturday’s governorship election in the state would be peaceful and violence-free. Speaking shortly after a one-day prayer and fasting session for a peaceful election, organised by the Edo Christian Community for all the governorship candidates ahead of the election, Obaseki urged eligible voters to come out en masse without fear of intimidation or harassment.  The governor noted that there was no need for any form of violence during the electioneering process. He expressed confidence that with the support of the people and his administration’s performance in the first term, his party would emerge victoriously. This was contained in a statement by the Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie. Obaseki said: “The church is the pillar on which we rest, and therefore, I have no fear whatsoever. I take actions, and people say I am very courageous, but it is God and not me. I have the church and God behind me, so why should I be afraid? “Ordinarily, an election is supposed to be a contest where people go to sell their ideal, and citizens in their own free will go and vote for those ideals they believe in. It shouldn’t be one where people will do anything to get power. The election should not be one in which we shed blood because elections will always come. “If you die in an election, you will not be there in the next one to vote. So, there is no need for violence. It’s unfortunate that where we are today, we are all afraid that there will be trouble, that there will be crisis and violence, but by the grace of God, we will all come out and vote, and there won’t be any bloodshed.” “There is no need for any violence, and if anybody decides to act violently, just walk away because our lives are very precious. I have a covenant with God; if it costs the blood of anybody for me to get into power, he should not let me have power,” Obaseki noted. On his part, the National President of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Rev. Felix Omobude, prayed that God would make peace reign before, during and after the election. “God commit Edo into your hands, and by this covenant, we proclaim peace over Edo; peace before, during and after the election. “The church speaks with one voice, that those that have sold themselves to work against the destiny of Edo shall be overwhelmed by their problems. In this election, rigging and evil will not have their way. “We knock the engine of their operation; Edo people shall go out and vote their consciences and the will of God will be done,” the clergy prayed.