Oriental Times Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, has lampooned the police in Ondo State for denying the arrest of suspected killers of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Chief Reuben Fasoranti. Spokesperson for the police in Ondo State, Tee-Leo Ikoro, had on Monday denied reports of the arrest of any suspects when contacted by SaharaReporters. But Yinka Odumakin spokesperson for Afenifere, in a statement on Tuesday, insisted that officers of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad in Ondo had apprehended four suspects in connection with the murder of Mrs Olakunrin. Odumakin said, “The regular police in Ondo State have behaved so irresponsibly on the murder of Mrs Funke Olakunrin in the last nine months. “But for SARS that has now apprehended the suspected killers, we would have lost confidence in the organisation.



See Also






Police
JUST IN: Police Deny Arresting Killers Of Pa Fasoranti's Daughter In Ondo
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “We were shocked that the regular police in Ondo released the car in which Mrs Olakunrin was killed to the family the day after the incident without any forensic. “It was after Afenifere's complaint to the police at the highest level that they came to take the car for forensic after seven days of people touching the car with no report to the family till date. “They just asked them to come and take the car that they were done with it. They were not going to do any autopsy on her until we insisted one must be carried out. “They never deemed it necessary to brief the family once in the last nine months. “But the SARS who arrested the suspected killers formally briefed Papa Fasoranti last Saturday showing the responsible face of the police. “The 94-year-old Pa Fasoranti who has been having sleepless nights in the last nine months has resumed normal sleep since SARS briefed him on the arrest. “The driver who was on the wheel when Mrs Olakunrin was killed and went with the killers was treated with kid gloves by the regular police in Ondo but the SARS has taken him in yesterday after he failed to report for days despite repeated invitations. “Once again, we commend the SARS for the wonderful job they have done and we wait for thorough investigation that will lead to diligent prosecution.”