 The Yoruba Youth Assembly, a socio-political movement, has said that people of the South-West region and indeed other parts of the country were more worried about how to deal with hunger than the Coronavirus outbreak in the country. YYA in a statement by Olarinde Thomas, National President, and Deji Oso, National Secretary, said it was unfair for government to lock down the entire country without making provisions for the welfare of the people. The statement reads, “It has become necessary to expose the dangers and contradictions in the blanket and allegorical broadcast of President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday. “The broadcast in the habitual character was more embroidered in grandiose rhetoric of irrelevances than addressing the salient issues of insecurity and state-sponsored terrorism of hunger afflicting our brothers and sisters in the South-West. “It's no longer news that some innocent citizens residing in Lagos and Ogun states have fallen to rape, robbery attacks and other forms of brutalisation in the hands of some men of the underworld in the past three days and all efforts to seek police intervention have proven abortive. “Ironically, President Buhari pretended or seemed to be oblivious to these security challenges in the country as he refused to address these highly crucial issues in his broadcast. “Our people in the South-West are suffering and agonising not because of the fear of COVID-19 but as a result of the prevailing terror of hunger that is openly staring at them in their state of isolation and deep-seated generic impoverishment.” The group further called on South-West states to immediately kick off the operations of Amotekun across the region to help tackle insecurity. It said, “The Federal Government and state governments in the South-West should empower the Amotekun Security Network to commence operation immediately to curb crime. “It is criminal and wicked on the part of any government to confined people to their houses without providing food and security to them.”