SOC Okenwa Pastor Chris Oyakhilome is a flamboyant spiritual head of Love-World Incorporated in Nigeria otherwise known as Christ Embassy. He was based in South Africa but his ministry is planted in many countries and continents. He is super-rich, handsome and academically sound. He is eloquent and charismatic. He has travelled far and wide to the extent that he cannot be described as a local evangelical champion. He commands thousands of followers across the world. Pastor Oyakhilome has been involved in both evangelical and conjugal scandals that he cannot be associated with piety or holiness. Some years ago, he had a marital battle with his (now estranged) wife, Anita. He later divorced her. Few years ago in South Africa, he was involved in a miracle-faking scandal. One or two of his followers had alleged sensationally that he used them to stage 'miracles' in some open televised crusade in some South African cities. Given the fact that evangelism is now a lucrative competition for riches, some so-called pastors go to extreme lengths to acquire power with which they pretend to heal or deliver in the name of Jesus Christ. One does not know why they could not heal or deliver citing the name of Lucifer with whose power they do 'miracles'. Anita, based abroad, had reportedly accused her former husband of infidelity! Like elsewhere around the globe, Nigeria boasts of adulterous pastors. You have very few 'Enochs' among the servants of God! Sexual scandals abound much like the nomenclature of the worship centres. From 'mountain' to 'dominion', 'embassy' to 'chosen', it is the same story of sexual predatory acts and activities. When the Oyakhilomes were authoring the monthly 'Rhapsody of Realities', I was an avid reader. Besides, I read also 'Awake' and 'Watchtower' magazines of Jehovah's Witnesses. I am neither a member of Jehovah's Witnesses nor Christ Embassy. If I need a visa to heaven, I would not need to go to Christ Embassy to obtain one. No 'visa' to heaven is available there! Pastor Chris Oyakhilome courted controversy deliberately recently when he declared that the Coronavirus pandemic afflicting all races was caused by the anti-Christ using the 5G revolutionary technology as a tool of satanic dominance. He made it clear in a detailed interview online that the 5G tech had a link to the COVID-19 epidemic that has thus far taken away thousands of souls around the world and still counting. The pastor claimed that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the lockdown of Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states because of the installation of the 5G technology in Nigeria. But the question he failed to answer -- one still begging for an answer – is: why would Buhari need a COVID-19 excuse to shut down major cities and towns in Nigeria? As President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces (no matter how inept his command), Buhari could order for total closure of any city or town for reasons of infrastructural or technological development. The Federal Government of Nigeria had reacted measuredly to the Oyakhilome bombshell. Paul Ogenyi, spokesperson for the National Orientation Agency, an agency under the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, had condemned Pastor Chris for his reckless opinion, arguing that it behoved religious leaders to measure their interventions to avoid misguiding or misleading the populace. Medically and scientifically, it has not been proven that the current pandemic terrorising the rich and poor countries has anything to do with 5G. In Lesotho, for example, it was reported that the small country has been using the 5G technology for over two years now yet there is no single reported case of Coronavirus. Lesotho and Comoros are the only two African countries thus far spared of the COVID-19 scourge. So if 5G has something to do with Coronavirus then no one should be left still standing in Lesotho. Historically, humanity had been hit by plagues and pandemics that claimed millions of lives in the past. So Coronavirus cannot be said to be unique in the health history of the world. LlPastor Oyakhilome should better concentrate his evangelical energy on preaching the gospel and deceiving those willing to be deceived. And amassing wealth for himself. He should leave scientists and technologists to take care of Coronavirus and 5G. Like many of his critics had contended, Oyakhilome goofed on this one. Indeed, he was talking utter balderdash. Perhaps he had said what he said because he desperately needed cheap publicity but it has backfired on him big time. The arrogant so-called man of God may be good at preaching the gospel but concerning COVID-19, he is not in any position medically or scientifically to teach us nonsense. His opinion counts but it is confusing and infantile. And above all, it tends to mislead the people. It is utterly irresponsible on his part to delve into an area or field alien to his 'calling'. COVID-19 as a scam exists only in the warped imagination of the Oyakhilomes of this world. We must intensify our prayers so that we cannot be 'contaminated' by their Luddite paranoia. SOC Okenwasoco_abj_2006_rci@hotmail.fr