 Facebook is very good in giving you back memories in large measures of happenings in and around you up to five years ago. Just on April 10, 2020, Facebook reminded me that I was released from EFCC detention in Abuja that day (last year 2019). It was a breaking news in most social and mainstream media. Facebook took me to several of my Facebook friends' posts, and they were many, who were demanding for my release since there was a court order to that effect, others were asking "where is Barrister Ubani"? What amazed me pleasantly and strengthened my faith in God, Nigeria and humanity, was the positive reactions of my faithful friends, who were of the opinion that I was innocent of any wrongdoings and that if EFCC felt strongly that I had committed any offence against the country, they should charge me to court or release me unconditionally. I have explained my alleged "offence" in several fora (you can goggle it). I was made by the same EFCC to stand as a surety to a client, who I convinced to come down to Nigeria to face her trial over allegation of misappropriation of public funds. The EFCC rejected without reason the qualified sureties the woman presented. The same EFCC through their overzealousness drove the said woman back to overseas and she subsequently jumped bail. I went after her through Interpol Headquarters in France (through Interpol Office in Abuja) and they accordingly placed her on Red Alert. Despite this patriotic act and showing evidence of not having any communication with her after she was driven out, the Acting Chairman of EFCC ordered my detention. I secured the services of a very senior and fearless lawyer to enforce my fundamental human rights as what had happened was not a criminal offence but purely civil case that requires me to show cause or forfeit the bail bond. The court held that I should be released or charged to court if I have committed any offence. That order was never obeyed on time. I was finally released after complete 23 days in detention in EFCC custody in Abuja. I have narrated my physical, spiritual including professional gains of my detention in my previous treatise. It was a worthwhile experience which I confess I shall treasure for the rest of my life for several reasons. Appreciation: I have so many persons to thank and appreciate for their role one way or the other during the time of my incarceration. They played one big role or the other including ensuring the comfort of family while I was away. I will exclude those in government for obvious reasons. They are as follows: 1. Mr Femi Falana SAN (mentor and a big uncle) 2. Chief Mike Ozekhome SAN (dogged and fearless dude) 3. Mr AB Mahmoud SAN (fatherly and helpful) 4. Chief Ngige SAN 5. Chief JK Gadazama SAN 6. Bar Mrs Ferguson(showed too much love) 7. Bar Mrs Muna Esegine, Bar Emeka Obegolu. 8. Mr Tunde Adejuyigbe SAN 9. Comrade Debo Adeniran 10. Bar Supo Ojo, Prince YS, EmDee, Sarafa Adeleke, Jalingo. 11. Bar Fred Nzeako and Bar Inibehe Effiong a young fearless lawyer. 12. Pastor Tunde Bakare 13. Bar Moses Enema, Bar Emeka Clement, Bwari Chair NBA, Bar Nkem Okoro. 14 Chief Ifeanyi Odii, my client and friend 15. Henry Ojelu and members of the Judiciary Reporters Ikeja and Lagos Branches. 16. Bar Okey Ohagba, Chief Balogun my client. 17. Bar Kunle Edun of NBA National 18. Mr Chris Erondu, a client and a friend. 19. Ambassador Tony Ewelike and the Deacons of AG, Ikeja. 20. Rev JNG Okafor and the Lagos Presbyters. 21. Rev Uche Ukasanya, my reverend minister. 22. Bar Samuel Ilori (dogged Lawyer), Bar KC Ugboajah. 23. Ubani Solidarity Group led by Anozie Emeka 24. NBA National led by Mr Paul Usoro SAN 25. NBA Ikeja led by Mr Dele Oloke 26 Eastern Bar Forum leadership and entire membership 27 Otu Okaiwu ( Group of Renowned Lawyers of Igbo Extraction, President and Membership. 28. CACOL  led by Debo Adeniran 29. Bar Evans Ufeli, Bar Ife Ajayi, Bar Tony, Bar Igwe Joseph. 29 Bar Chidi, Bar Nwangwa and the rest of Ubani and Co workers. 30. CLASFON, Christian Lawyers, Lagos and National. 31. UNEC 89 Law Class, Ibe Bosah and wife. 32 1990 Law School classmates nationwide. 33. AG members, Ikeja and nationwide 34 Body of Ambassadors of AG Nigeria 35 Rev Chidi Okoroafor and all EC members. 36. Full Gospel Leadership and members nationwide. 37. All media oractitioners, print and electronics 38 Azu of Radio Inspiration FM 39 Useni of Arise TV formerly of Inspiration Radio FM 40. Social media influencers too numerous to mention here individually. 41. All bloggers especially Law Bloggers like ThisNigerian Lawyer, Kate Unini, NewsWire, Bar Gloria and BarristerNG.Com, Bar Bridget. 42. Mrs Faurstina Onyinye Ubani, dear and lovely wife 42 All my children, Richard Akinola, Charles Idehor. 43 My friends in the Presidency and in government especially Prof Itse Sagay SAN. 44 All my friends on Facebook too many to mention here. 45. My friends in Abia, my LGA Ikwuano and my community Awomukwu in Ikwuano LGA of Abia State. 46. My friends in Channels TV, TVC, Silverbird and other TV stations, Ogbanago Mohammed. 47 Mofe Oyatogun of Star FM 101.5 and guests like Mazi and callers and friends. 48. Abia Radio presenters like Igo Yan Baba(Bright), Ifeanyi Ubaka Okali of ABIA TV Online. 49 Bar Emeka Nwadioke, Frank Aghedo, Bar Helen Mbakwe (wonderful lady). 50 My landlord association leadership and membership of my estate in Lagos. 51. Alex John, my personal driver and Hon Christopher Enai, who was a fellow detainee, including those friends, detainees and beautiful souls I converted in the cell. 52 All those I forgot to mention their names due to space constraint. Many of the EFCC personnel I met while in detention I must confess were nice to me and I remain grateful to them. I also want to thank Mr Ibrahim Magu, the Acting Chairman of EFCC for his actions because without the detention I would not have had the experience I had as a human rights lawyer. Note that experience is actually the best teacher and the detention experience has added to my stock of knowledge about life and my professional career generally. It was really a worthwhile experience which has given me another perspective to life. I have no room for bitterness as my father's will is usually fulfilled in every situation in life. Thank you all and thank God that I am alive to tell the story. Monday O. Ubani (MOU) Esq, legal practitioner