 On the death of Abba i have read a lot. I thought i wont make more comments but what i am seeing is nauseating. On social media in the last few years i read a lot about people taking Abba Kyari to the cleaners, during the MTN brouhaha, the Aisha wahala, the Onnoghen imbroglio, the NSA granstanding, The nepotic apppontment in this govt, The issue of AIT been locked out of Aso Rock, the ministry of health procurement budget moved to Agric, The Daura kasala, the Obla thievery, the Vice President been put in his place hmm hmm and subsequent isolation of the veepee, the appointment of another economic team apart from the one headed by Veepee, the announcement by president that all matters should go to COS, the defacto presido,.. I can go on. (they might be true or rumours but these people abused AB to high heaven) These people abused, insulted, accused and vilified this same AB. They took him out and dusted him like a dog, they said all sorts about him. But today, these same people are eulogising him, singing his praise and giving credit for even those things he did not do. Hmmm, Nigerians we are a real bunch of humanity! a people without ...... You abused, insulted and said many bad things about a man, the man died and your testimonies are changing. Please fear God. Have you ever given a thought you might have killed that man and not covid 19? has it crossed your mind that all the things you said, gave the man hard time in recovery, or maybe he considered all and said "whats there to live for" and gave up. Now he is dead, in death he suddenly became a "loyal man to the core" " He served his nation with his all" "He was a man with integrity" All these your sudden change of testimonies were they as a result of the fact that you now know the truth or because Godfrey Onyeama wrote about HIS PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP with AB or your are just displaying blinded ignorance as usual? Lets ask others, maybe lets ask the Veepee to write his own eulogy candidly and with the fear of God not the political one oh... Lets see! The truth is i read these funny statements from Southerners. We are the problem of this nation! We can't see and not speak, we have no restraints. we speak from 2 sides of the mouth. Giving the wrong impression always. We speak with emotion and sentiments. He was alive you attacked him, he died we eulogise him. One of the reasons the Northerners have always held sway is their maturity especially when it comes to speaking. Some of them when tou speak with them hold some of our opinions, but wont write and they do might never cahnge it. They hardly do 2 tongues, if they do, they want something from you, but for us its just for the sake of talking and with the rave of the moment. We must learn to praise people who are good while they are alive and when they die stick to the truth, dont patronise the dead, they dont see you or cant do you anything. And if they did bad while alive say in even if they die stick to it. For me whether you are alive or dead, what i have been saying is what i will say. All the present leaders in Nigeria have failed us. Dead or living. i will not because of death eulogise who i dint while alive. i will say the truth when you are alive, and when you are dead i will still say the truth. For me i never spoke for or against AB, i dint elect him. i have my issues with PMB and only in relation to the state of the nation and his skewed appointments which brought in AB as well. I never will attack anyone personally. But if you say someone was a defacto president like a lot of these hoho people claimed and for which they once vilified the man, then i like to put my basis for declaring one a great man or politician or public servant forward. For Me: If a man is great or was great, a man that is or was a politician or public office holder i wont see it in his personal relationships or how he treated his family, I will see it on the streets or in the infrastructure (hard or soft) that he left behind. At this point in our country, How are the following as we speak? 1. heathcare 2. Education 3. security 4. roads 5. human capital devt 6. transportation 7. economy 8. peaceful coexistence 9. nepotic appointments 10. etc Seriously speaking, if a man was said to have been great as a defacto President, shouldn't we see and score the above listed high for Nigeria? Everyone knows who was ruling. We know who calls the ....., we know the decision makers in this govt. So for me a great man should have turned these around in 5 years even as a COS not even defacto. We should use the fact that he was a good family man or friend to the foreign affairs minister..... The minister paid tribute to his friend. HIS FRIEND. The rest of us should ask what is our govt doing for us or did under the defacto. We've had great men in this country, that when they died, there was no weavering or deception in our confession of his greatness. Again i dont have issue with AB, i never knew him one on one so can't judge based on that, i never criticised him directly while he was alive. i had issues with the govt he led as the shadow president and i spoke my mind against the govt for the betterment of our nation, some the govt saw or they heard and addressed, most they havent addressed. That confession or criticism cant change now by the death of AB. so for you guys who are asking or saying "You blamed AB for everything, let see if things will change now that he is dead" take note you are jot God and tou cant silence the voice of good reasoning. AB or not anyone who is not doing well in govt should be criticised. you opened yourself up for criticism when you took that appointment. uneasy is the head that wears the crown. We are forging on as a country, let our leaders do the right thing always and make the right decisions and appointments not to appoint those who will be loyal to them alone or their personal interest but committed to the development and progress of our nation Nigeria. By Franklin Akinsosoye