 Some medical doctors at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Borno State, have raised the alarm over shortage and hoarding of Personal Protective Equipment by some health workers and management staff. Some of the doctors, who spoke with SaharaReporters, painted a deplorable situation at the hospital. The doctors, who commended the efforts and commitment of the state government in its preparedness towards the COVID-19 outbreak, disclosed that the hospital had recorded the death of the first index case of the virus. They disclosed that some senior staff and nurses at the hospital had cultivated the habit of keeping PPE away from doctors, who need the item to attend to patients. One of the doctors specifically revealed that they were not provided with hand gloves, face masks, sanitizers and apron by the hospital’s management. He said, “Our senior officers are wearing face masks but the junior workers have nothing to protect themselves with, we have to use our personal funds to procure it by ourselves. "The hospital may be having it but they are not giving us. We have to recycle face masks to use. “For now, there is no equipment on the ground to protect us from Coronavirus." President of Nigerian Medical Association, Francis Faduyile, while speaking with SaharaReporters called on government at the federal and state levels to make PPE available for all health workers putting their lives on the line for others. Faduyile said, "Every health outlet should have PPE to enable health workers protect themselves appropriately. "We have had three of our members die in Kano, Lagos and Akwa Ibom State. We are still investigating if all of them contracted it in the line of duty." Some medical doctors at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, Borno State, have raised the alarm over shortage and hoarding of Personal Protective Equipment by some health workers and management staff. Some of the doctors, who spoke with SaharaReporters, painted a deplorable situation at the hospital. The doctors, who commended the efforts and commitment of the state government in its preparedness towards the COVID-19 outbreak, disclosed that the hospital had recorded the death of the first index case of the virus. They disclosed that some senior staff and nurses at the hospital had cultivated the habit of keeping PPE away from doctors, who need the item to attend to patients. One of the doctors specifically revealed that they were not provided with hand gloves, face masks, sanitizers and apron by the hospital’s management. He said, “Our senior officers are wearing face masks but the junior workers have nothing to protect themselves with, we have to use our personal funds to procure it by ourselves. "The hospital may be having it but they are not giving us. We have to recycle face masks to use. “For now, there is no equipment on the ground to protect us from Coronavirus." President of Nigerian Medical Association, Francis Faduyile, while speaking with SaharaReporters called on government at the federal and state levels to make PPE available for all health workers putting their lives on the line for others. Faduyile said, "Every health outlet should have PPE to enable health workers protect themselves appropriately. "We have had three of our members die in Kano, Lagos and Akwa Ibom State. We are still investigating if all of them contracted it in the line of duty."