  Acting President, Customary Court of Appeal, Imo State, Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi, and Hon. Justice Aliyu Musa Liman of Bauchi State High Court, have been suspended by the National Judicial Council. The council went ahead to recommend the compulsory retirement of the two judges after finding them guilty of misconduct. The NJC accused Abosi of falsifying his age and Liman’s failure to deliver judgment in a case within the stipulated time as misconduct. The decision was reached during the NJC’s 91st Meeting held online on April 22 and 23, 2020. A statement by the council’s spokesperson, Soji Oye, said, “Council at the meeting also recommended the compulsory retirement of Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi, Acting President, Customary Court of Appeal, Imo State, and Hon. Justice Aliyu Musa Liman of Bauchi State High Court of Justice with immediate effect. “Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi was recommended for compulsory retirement following the falsification of his date of birth from 1950 to 1958. “Findings showed that he was supposed to have retired in November 2015 when he clocked the mandatory retirement age of 65 years. “Council decided to recommend his compulsory retirement to Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State and to also deduct the salaries he had earned from November 2015 to date from his retirement benefit. “Hon. Justice Aliyu Musa Liman was recommended to the Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, for compulsory retirement pursuant to the findings by the Council for his failure to deliver judgment in suit No BA/100/2010, between Abubakar Isa and Sheik Tahir Usman Bauchi within the three months period stipulated by the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Council viewed His Lordship’s failure to deliver judgment for nearly four years as a misconduct, contrary to Section 292 (1) (b) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, as amended and Rules 1.3 and 3.7 of the 2016 Revised Code of Conduct for judicial officers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Meanwhile, the National Judicial Council in the exercise of its disciplinary powers under the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, has suspended Hon. Justice Francis Chukwuma Abosi and Hon. Justice Aliyu Musa Liman from office pending the approval of the recommendation of the Council for his compulsory retirement to the their respective state governors.” The NNJC also decided to report Messrs Apeiyi Becon Clement, Ifeanyi Egwasi, Nwafor Orizu, Godwin Nkemjika Chukwukwere, Akopde Haggai Ukuku, Chief Emefo Etudo, Osamudiamen Obarogie and B. S. Onuegbu to the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee for various acts unbecoming of legal practitioners ranging from unruly behaviour, walking out of court in the cause of proceedings to submission of false documents to court. 