 There is currently tension in Arimogija under Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State following the brutal killing of a farmer and his son by suspected Fulani herdsmen. The victims – Mr Oguchi Jacob and Adura Jacob – were killed while on their farmland around 12pm on Tuesday. Another son of the farmer, who was identified as Eneku, was also hit by bullets fired by the hoodlums and is in a critical state in the hospital. Wife of deceased, Joy, who spoke with SaharaReporters on Friday morning, confirmed the incident, adding that the case had been reported to the police. She said that the killing of her husband and son triggered a protest in the village as the locals demanded the intervention of the government over incessant attacks on them by herdsmen. The incident has already forced many of the residents of the agrarian community to abandon their homes over fear of renewed attacks. “We were inside the community when we heard shouts that Fulani herdsmen had killed a man and his son on their farmland while working. “This is not be the first they will be doing this evil to us. There was a time they attacked a farmer and buried him in a shallow grave. “They come with their cattle and destroy people's farms and if you challenge them, they become aggressive and try to kill you,” one resident said. Another villager, who spoke with SaharaReporters, said they saw a helicopter dropping weapons in the forest for Fulani herdsmen. He said, “We saw a helicopter dropping some items we suspected to be weapons for herdsmen in the forest and we called the attention of the police to it. “What I am telling you is the fact and if you see some of the weapons in the hands of these herdsmen, you will understand this.” Police spokesperson in Ondo State, Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed the incident during a chat with our correspondent. He however, denied that those who perpetrated the attack were Fulani herdsmen. He said, “The police are already on the trail of the gunmen because from the moment it happened, the incident was reported to us. “In fact, the Commissioner of Police has ordered our men in operation Rapid Response to ensure they arrest whoever perpetrated this dastardly act.” Meanwhile, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Security Matter, Jimoh Dojumo, has led a government delegation to the community to commiserate with the people over their loss.