The Citizen Quest for Truth Initiative has said it would be taking up the responsibility of investigating alleged corrupt activities going on within the Niger Delta Development Commission. SaharaReporters had exposed a multi-billion naira fraud involving the board and top management members of the agency over the purchase of Personal Protective Equipment and sanitisers to tackle Coronavirus in the nine states making up the region. The commission had approved N5,474,647,125.00 for procurement of PPE to be delivered within 15 days but no equipment was delivered.  Also, there has been claims and counter-claims by the NDDC and some contractors on the situation of contracts issued for the development of the region. Overwhelmed by the number of petitions against the NDDC, the group said it was determined to verify the true state of things in the commission.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: N5bn COVID-19 Personal Protective Equipment Fraud Uncovered In Niger Delta Development Commission
0 Comments
3 Days Ago In a statement jointly signed by Chief Oby Ndukwe, National President; and Francis Ndimkoha, National Publicity Secretary, the group lamented that while the world was in search for the cure of COVID-19, some individuals were concerned with looting funds meant to combat the virus. The statement reads partly, “The attention of Citizens Quest For Truth Initiative has been drawn to what is almost beco ming a constant in the Niger Delta Development Commission which includes a flurry of petitions and allegations of widespread fraud especially as it concerns the recent N4bn (Four billion naira) contract for Lassa Fever and maternal kits amongst others. “Again, Citizens Quest is concerned about the alleged N5bn ( Five billion naira) contract for COVID-19 Personal Protective Equipment, which the commission had disowned in a press please of 25th April, 2020 where the Head of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili, stated that no such contract has been awarded. “As a non-governmental organisation which has been in the forefront of the campaign for good governance as well as accurate reportage of issues, we are determined to verify the veracity of the spurious claims, allegations and counter allegations rocking the commission for a long time now. “In the light of the above, we have concluded plans within the confines of the law for the compliance to the orders of the government to go in search of the truth.” Citizen Quest urged the cooperation and support of stakeholders to help in the fight to clean the NDDC of corruption for the development of the region.