President of Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide, Apostle Johnson Suleman, has said that Islamic clerics are backing his move to pray for people infected with COVID-19 in Nigeria despite criticisms from Christians against the move. Suleman is being criticised after he visited the General Hospital in Auchi, Edo State, to encourage healthcare workers on the frontlines of the fight against the virus. The cleric claimed that COVID-19 was overrated and urged the government to allow him visit isolation centres to heal infected persons. Suleman had come under fire for his request but he continues to defend his intention. In a tweet on Sunday, he revealed that despite criticisms from Christians on his decision to pray for COVID-19, Muslim leaders have shown support and will be joining his prayers. He said, “Muslim leaders have called me that they support me in faith and will be praying too for the healing of the world. “Yet some who say they are Christians are muttering gibberish. Shame. I stand by my words, we are starting prayers from Tuesday and God will heal.” His recent comment has continued to generate mixed reactions on social media especially on Twitter. For example, one user @jimmyjohnsonzoe, said, “Stop deceiving the lots; you've been shouting for years with your bad voice and the country is still the same. “If it’s by prayers and religious leaders, I am sure Nigeria would be the greatest nation in the world. Allow scientists do their job and shut up.” @yinkanubi tweeted, “Unnecessary grandstanding. No Nigerian Government will stop you from volunteering to care for COVID-19 patients. “Just go to the isolation centres in Yaba, Onikan and Landmark and present your request. If I were the NCDC, I will fast-track your accreditation after all what have we got to lose?” @mrseunlawal said, “Your prayers should be potent enough to get to them from your office. “Please don’t come back when it’s all gone and say “oh if the Nigerian Government had allowed me, I would have healed a lot.” @seunolash tweeted, “There is no distance in the spirit. If the Nigerian Government is not giving permission, prayers can be said anywhere and God who heals will listen and heal the sick. “As it is written, 'He sent His word and heals them.' By the way, we need prayers that will destroy COVID-19 and its spread. It is well.” Speaking in support of Suleman, @babatundeoluwa6 said, “God had given them to reprobate mind because they fail to allow the spirit of God in them. Time will tell if God is powerful or not.” @kesty_okums said, “Thank you very much sir. You are an epitome of God's knowledge and wisdom. God bless you as you keep blessing us.” @MamokeMarioghae said, “The gates of hell shall not prevail. We are standing in faith praying along with you papa. “More grace and greater glory in Jesus name. Jehovah the doctor will glorify His name.”