 Hadiza el-Rufai, wife of Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has made a u-turn to condemn her son's threat to ‘rape’ the mother of a Twitter user over a disagreement on the social networking platform. Bello El-Rufai, her son, in a series of posts on Twitter on Sunday, had threatened to "pass" the mother of a user name Consigliere to his friends after describing the woman as a "whore". Trouble started when Bello criticised United States President, Donald Trump, for not doing enough to handle the outbreak of Coronavirus in America.



See Also






Politics
Bello, Son Of Kaduna Governor, El-Rufai, Rains Insult On Twitter User After Disagreement Over Trump, Buhari’s Handling Of Coronavirus Outbreak
0 Comments
23 Hours Ago Bello said, “There is nothing as radioactive as an incompetent leader during a time of crisis. The United States of America is a case in point. A few states in Nigeria too.” But not satisfied with Bello’s attack on Trump, Consigliere fired back, insisting that the American President was miles better than President Muhammadu Buhari and even his father, el-Rufai, in terms of quality leadership. Consigliere wrote, “He can't call Buhari out for his ineptitude yet he's calling Trump names? Did he vote Trump?” Rather than douse things, that only escalated tensions, forcing a series of strong-worded and offensive outbursts from the younger el-Rufai directed at the Twitter user. When tagged in the Twitter posts, Hadiza appeared to support her son's offensive display by saying, "Don’t @me. Sow the wind, reap the whirlwind. All is fair in love and war." However, her comment attracted criticisms from Nigerians across and beyond the country, forcing her to pull backwards in another tweet on Monday. She said, "When I posted the tweet below, I assumed it was just the usual Twitter gbas-gbos. Having read the tweets chronologically, I have had conversations with Bello. “Never ever should sexual abuse be employed as ammunition in public/private exchanges, no matter the provocation." When I posted the tweet below, I assumed it was just the usual Twitter gbas-gbos. Having read the tweets chronologically, I have had conversations with Bello. Never ever should sexual abuse be employed as ammunition in public/ private exchanges, no matter the provocation. https://t.co/db4W44bWzJ  Meanwhile Bello has threatened a journalist, Samuel Ogundipe, over his report of the incident, vowing to use "APC rule of law" to ensure that he was "arrested" and not released.