Buhari Olanrewaju Ahmed  Oppressors gyrate to see the oppressed people bow and applaud them, but the current plague devastates their whole system since it affects them and their cronies. A hopeless man has nothing to rely on; he will utilise his last energy wisely for him to survive. Also, a neglected pregnant woman only has little hope with the local midwife who might help her to deliver her baby. A dying person with no money for medical treatment dies while consuming local herbs just to survive. Those who lost their sight and hoping to regain it eventually lost it completely because of little or no funds for the surgery. When there is no hope, survival becomes difficult. When there is no leadership, a community becomes a desecrated place for survivors. Criminality is initiated by the weak system that harbours it. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who also serves as the Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19, was quoted as saying, "I can tell you for sure, I never knew that our entire healthcare infrastructure was in the state in which it is. Until I was appointed to do this work". Boss Mustapha is an opportunist who clearly got carried away and forgot his roots. He wasn't born with a sliver spoon and couldn’t have spent his entire life flying in and out of foreign hospitals in Asia, Europe and America to necessitate his absurd statement. Boss Mustapha was born in Garaha, Hong Local Government Area of Adamawa State. He also attended his primary school in Hong before proceeding to Maiduguri for his high school education. He was later admitted into Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and obtained a bachelor’s degree in Law before proceeding to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus. His path into politics shows that Boss Mustapha wasn't born with a sliver spoon. He has experienced the low side of life and the decrepit state of our institutions before he rose to the dining table to wine and dine with the powers that be. Behaving like a river that forgot its source is nauseating to the extreme. People have been expressing their concerns on social and print media long before the pandemic. Many doctors and nurses have demonstrated their worries and frustration to the government owing to lack of equipment and dilapidated state of our healthcare system in the country. Perhaps, if our healthcare system was in good condition no politician will consider travelling abroad for his medical checks like Muhammadu Buhari has done in the past five years of his regime. The Nigerian healthcare systems has collapsed for decades, APC’s deceitful government used it for campaign in 2015 and in 2019. And Boss Mustapha has been in government for long, enjoying the freebies that are accruable to him. He probably has never used any of our medical facilities in the country since becoming a public official. He has been flown to foreign hospitals at the slightest headache, all at the expense of Nigerians. That the rain didn't fall is no reason to wish the sea would flood the city. Coronavirus has opened the buttocks of the Nigerian Government, it has also revealed the incompetence and inadequacies of this regime. One will wonder why he never knew about the current situation of our healthcare system in the country as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Having the audacity to publicly claim that he never knew Nigeria's healthcare system was in a terrible condition is laughable and amounts to an insult to Nigerians. It would seem also that the Minister of Health is being sidelined in the decision-making process, which may be why he was unable to narrate the shameless state of our healthcare system to the SGF. Let us even assume that Boss Mustapha has not been aware of our current healthcare system, let him drive down to Garaha, his hometown in Adamawa, for medical checks. Let him also take all his family members along to his community for medical tourism. Let him tour Hong Local Government and feel the pains of what his people are passing through. One man’s adversity is another man’s gain, the pandemic has assisted Nigerians by forcing the government to see the reality on ground and their foolhardiness. Coronavirus has shown how weak and incompetent this government is. We are breeding up those who have no knowledge about leadership and do not know what government is all about. Boss Mustahpa is comfortable with his position, while not knowing the numerous problems Nigerians are facing on a daily basis. How can he know? Since he has no business with our healthcare system in the country. To face a war and not flee is the honour of a man.  Boss Mustapha should not abdicate his responsibilities because he wants to satisfy his master. Even President Muhammadu Buhari knew about the rottenness in our healthcare system for long, that's why he flies abroad for his medical checks.