 Some Nigerian ladies trafficked to Lebanon for slavery have urged the Nigerian Government to help return them back to Nigeria. The ladies in a video alleged that they escaped from their homes and went to the Nigerian Embassy in Lebanon but Nigerians working at the embassy sent them out. The ladies said they were taken to the Arabian country and made to work as slaves. The ladies cried out after they got information that the Nigerian Government helped a lady escape Lebanon and reunited her with her family in Nigeria. The ladies are pleading to the government to free them from their paymasters (agents) and repatriate them to Nigeria. In videos sighted by SaharaReporters, the ladies were talking to a top official of the country’s embassy in Lebanon and pleading with him to allow them stay in the embassy but their pleas were ignored. One of the ladies said she had been homeless since December 15, 2019 when she ran away from her master. The ladies narrated that they were condemned to constant flogging. “I have nowhere to go, maybe we can sleep here (pointing to the floor),” one of the ladies said. “I have money with my agent and my phone is with him. They used to collect our salaries and phone. “Sir, we all have proofs, the place cannot be easy for us and we will leave. Now that the embassy has asked us to leave, we don’t know where to go to and we don’t have anywhere to go,” another lady said pleading with a top official at the embassy. Stranded with no hope of accommodation in the country, the ladies pleaded to all Nigerians and President Muhammadu Buhari to help them leave Lebanon. "Dear Nigerians, we need your help, we need your assistance. We are facing a lot of things in Lebanon and we tried to rescue ourselves. “We ran to Nigerian Embassy for assistance but unfortunately they said we should go out. “This is our representative in Lebanon, they said there is no way we can stay that we should go out. "There is nowhere we are going; we don’t have anywhere to stay. There is no food, there is nothing; please help and assist. "We are begging everybody, most especially President Buhari, please help us, we need your help, we are stranded here in Nigerian Embassy in Lebanon,” the ladies pleaded.