Some Nigerians working at the Indonesia Embassy In Nigeria have lamented the delay in the payment of their allowances, poor working condition, discrimination, among others. The Nigerian staff told SaharaReporters that the embassy, led by Ambassador Usra Hendra Harahap, had subjected them to poor working conditions. Embassy of Indonesia, Abuja While all Indonesian staff in the embassy have been scheduled for PCR test after Harahap, his wife and personal assistant tested positive for COVID-19, their Nigerian counterparts were left out of the test, a source said. "The Ambassador of Indonesia, Ambassador Usra Hendra Harahap, his wife and personal assistant are currently down with Covid-19. The wife of the ambassador was the first person who tested positive for the virus two weeks ago. The information was hidden. Her staff have been coming to the office and mingling with another team, both Indonesian and Nigerian, especially the PA. "Since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic, they have been made to work in tight spaces without proper ventilation in all the offices except that of the senior staff. None of their allowances was paid, but those of their Indonesian colleagues were paid fully, they were even paid COVID-19 allowances. "Recently Indonesians' salaries were increased while salaries of Nigerians working in the embassy is between N40,000 to N90,000 maximum. "Currently, all the Indonesian staff have all been scheduled for PCR test while the Nigerian staff were left out. Meanwhile, they were all exposed to the virus at the same location in the office," a family member of one of the workers told SaharaReporters. SaharaReporters further gathered that the workers have no medical insurance and were being denied overtime payments by the embassy. Though their salaries, it was learnt, are sent from the headquarters in dollars, they are being paid 'peanuts in naira' by Harahap. The source added, "They don't have any pensions and are out on one or two years renewable contracts. Right now, they don't know their fate healthwise and are afraid to report to the authorities to avoid being fingered out and sacked. "My brother told me some of them had been made to sign an undertaking that they are letting go of their legal rights if not, their contracts would not be renewed."