A political activist and youth mobiliser, Lucy Akumabor, has urged Nigerians to elect young, brilliant citizens into leadership positions come 2023 general elections to inspire massive infrastructural development across the country. Akumabor made the call in a statement. She urged the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and other political parties in the country to move away from the past by giving the youth a fair chance to compete for leadership positions in the public interest. Akumabor said Nigerian youths had the relevant leadership skills to successfully pilot the affairs of the country and make it a giant on the African continent like it should be. She said, "I have always made my position known on issues concerning governance especially after the #EndSARS protest, which should tell anyone who is politically alert that our young people have arisen and want to take responsibility for our country. That is why I am urging the leadership of political parties to allow young people to contest the presidential election on their platforms. "They must give competent, resourceful, young party members, who possess leadership potential, the chance to vie for presidential tickets on their platforms in 2023. By so doing, parties will be attracting more young people into politics who can, in turn, deliver the dividends of democracy to the people of Nigeria. "For Nigeria to move in the right direction in terms of development, young people must be given their chance in leadership because they hold the key to the country's future. "I will continue to work with young people across the country for this dream to be actualised. There are dozens of young Nigerians with answers to Nigeria's problems; they must be allowed to take over the saddle of leadership in 2023 through the support of the people." Though still three years from now before incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari quits office in 2023, the debate on who should succeed him in office has begun in earnest. Young Nigerians, who had over the years been pushed to the background by old politicians, are plotting to disrupt the political space in 2023 through ongoing 'underground' alliances.