The Ekiti State Government has imposed fresh restrictions on schools and religious centres to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The state governor, Kayode Fayemi, disclosed this on Wednesday, while announcing new guidelines aimed at curbing the second wave of COVID-19. Governor Fayemi Among the new measures is the closure of schools and restriction of churches, mosques to holding only one service on worship days of Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The statement quoted the governor as saying the step became necessary to ensure that the situation would not get out of control. The governor also directed that schools in the state would remain closed till January 18, 2021 while vigils, partying and clubbing have been suspended till further notice. Fayemi also directed that civil servants on Grade Level 12 and below are to stay at home till January 18 when they would be given directive on when to resume. The governor said only half of the full sitting capacity of any facility should be allowed to participate in any ceremony or programme at any time and activities should not exceed 8pm. Fayemi said, “In addition, protocols regarding wedding and burial ceremonies remain in force. There should be no crowd in the church auditorium and burial services must be at the graveside only. “Supermarkets, event centres, hotels and bar owners are to strictly ensure that social distancing measures are put in place and followed accordingly. “Only half of the full sitting capacity of a facility can be allowed to participate in any ceremony/programme at any point and activities should not exceed 8pm. Partying, clubbing and vigils are suspended indefinitely until further notice. “To ensure that things do not snowball out of control, we have given strict instructions to the taskforce and law enforcement agents to begin aggressive compliance enforcement activities in public places, including worship centres, event centres, markets, supermarkets, bars and hotels. "Government will not hesitate to close down any facility indefinitely, and to prosecute operators of any public places, flouting the protocols.”