The Divisional Police Officer of Zuba division in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Wellington Omorogieva, has threatened to 'deal' with an Islamic cleric, Ismaeel Gbadamosi, and his wife, SaharaReporters has gathered.The threat, according to sources, followed an interview granted to SaharaReporters by Gbadomosi's wife where she alleged that police officers from the division broke into their house around 10 pm on Tuesday, behaving precisely like kidnappers.  See Also









Police
"Police Are Working With Kidnappers"—Woman Narrates Encounter With Police Who Broke Into Her Home Through Ceiling
0 Comments
19 Hours Ago





According to the woman, when the officers led by one Isah Dahiru could not gain access to their home through the door, they broke the ceiling and jumped inside."Last night, around 10om, we put on the generator because I was marking sone students' exam scripts. My husband had slept. I heard a bang on the gate, thinking it was a neighbour. Maybe the electricity company has restored light. Suddenly I heard continuous sounds as if they were using stones on the entrance to force it open. I quickly woke him up that armed robbers were breaking our door."They started shouting that we should open the door, that they would shoot us, kill us, that they had rifles and cutlasses. My cousin ran to lock the door with the key. My husband was holding the doorknob because they were hitting it with an iron to break it. My children and I were crying. They were pointing their torches inside the house. Many of them were at the door. Some were at the window trying to remove the burglary."Then I followed them and started shouting to the neighbours that they were kidnappers. Their vehicle was parked at a long distance to my house. We saw other people in their car. I was still insisting they were kidnappers. So I took a bike to follow them to the station to establish they were policemen."The DPO tactically tried to give Isah Dahiru a room to turn the case, but the man was gullible. He admitted that my husband was arrested for no reason as they were looking for cocaine dealers. The DPO pleaded and that he was ashamed of what happened. He pleaded that he would discipline them internally."See, these police officers are working with the kidnappers, because like 10 of the boys that followed them were Fulani dressed like Boko Haram fighters. They broke other people's ceiling and doors too," the woman had said in the interview published by SaharaReporters.But a police source said Omorogieva, who was transferred to the division three weeks ago, was infuriated over the publication."He was furious; he called some officers and told them he would deal with the man and his wife. He told them he had received different calls from people including a commissioner for police," the source said.Also speaking to SaharaReporters, a relative of the teacher confirmed that the family had been told to leave their house for security reasons.He said, "The DPO reported them to two prominent people in Zuba community. It was those people that called them to go and beg him over the interview. He told them he would deal with the family, especially the wife."We have advised them to vacate the house now for security reasons."When contacted, the DPO, on hearing the reporter was from SaharaReporters, dropped the call and refused to answer subsequent calls put across to him.  