A new civil society coalition, Alliance for the Survival of COVID-19 and Beyond, has said that Nigerian military leaders have failed and should be relieved of their duties over their failure to protect Nigerians from Boko Haram. Reacting to the massacre of farmers in Borno by the insurgents, the group said the mass murder was a sign of incompetence and ineptitude by those who head Nigeria's military formations.  In a statement by its chairman, Femi Falana, the group wondered why the killings which could have taken the perpetrators less than four hours drew no aerial or land response from all the security operatives especially when the killings took place in broad daylight. "We commiserate with the victims of these savage killings. We stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the victims and their families at this gory moment of grief. The Federal Government must take drastic action. This should include changing the Service Chiefs," part of the statement read. "On June 18, 2020, President Buhari finally admitted that the efforts of Nigeria's security chiefs against insurgency were not enough. He expressed this in a meeting held with the service chiefs at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. "Speaking to journalists after the meeting, the National Security Adviser, General Babagana Monguno (retd) said that President Buhari told the security chiefs that he would no longer take excuses from them and that he expected them to henceforth live up to expectations." The group, however, said that the security situation has not improved as terrorists, bandits and kidnappers have since been unleashing violence on Nigerians, adding that kidnappers and armed robbers equally terrorise people living in southern states. "No doubt, the service chiefs have tried their best to secure the country's population and its territory. But since President Buhari has concluded that the service chiefs are not doing enough to secure the country, he ought to relieve them of their appointments and appoint new ones in the overall interests of the people of Nigeria." The group said the mass burial of the farmers massacred by Boko Haram did not show honour and respect for the dead, suggesting that the victims deserved monuments to serve as a reference point for the grief that has shaken the entire world. The group also is worried that such killings of farmers could cause food insecurity in the country. "While the Federal and state governments are asking people to go back to the farm to boost the domestic economy, the killings of farmers will certainly imperil community and individual interest in the agrarian economy."