The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has warned police officers in the country that while defending themselves or preventing anarchy, they are meant to shoot to maim and not to kill anyone. Speaking against the background of the recent EndSARS protests nationwide which was hijacked by hoodlums and led to the burning of several police stations nationwide, the IGP added that policemen should "shoot the suspect on the leg, not on the heart." Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. Adamu stated these on Tuesday while on a one-day working visit to the Ebonyi State Police Command. He urged the officers to use their firearms whenever their lives were in danger. The IGP lamented the number of police deaths and destruction of police stations during the protests, warning that the police follow the laid down rules of engagement while coming out against protesters. Adamu said, "When your life is in danger you, use your firearm. You are not meant to kill but to maim. Shoot the suspect on the leg, not on the heart. "The EndSARS protests started from Delta to Lagos and other parts of the country. The motive behind the protests was not EndSARS but an attack on the government. The police provided them cover. Their aim was not a peaceful protest as it turned to violence a few days after. The reason was to attack the police that can protect the citizens and corporate offices in the country. "The police can prevent the loss of lives. We are meant to protect and not to destroy lives. It was through maximum restraint we saved the country from anarchy. We proved that during the protests, the police could be trusted. "The President supported the police and the Governors Forum, saying that we love our police. What happened because of the attack on police, tends for the police to be demoralised as banks, companies, private and public properties were destroyed. "Other sectors were attacked; police were not only the worst hit. Nigeria police will never again accept such type of violent protest. If you want to protest, we will provide security but it should be within the law. "When your life is in danger, you use your firearm. You are meant to maim and not to kill that person. The officers that died did not die in vain. We have promoted them and look into the issue of compensation. Welfare issues will be addressed. We have a health insurance scheme."