A 16-year-old girl, Whitney, who alleged that her father sexually abused her for two consecutive years, has called on relevant authorities to ensure justice is served. Whitney, who shared her story via a WhatsApp audio, said her father, a journalist, started abusing her in 2018 when she was just 14.  She said, "It all started in December 2018, when he called me to his room to come and select a hairstyle I'd like to make for Christmas. I went to his room not thinking of any other thing. I sat on the bed and when we finished selecting the hairstyle, he started to touch me in an 'unfatherly' manner. I resisted him but he told me not to waste my time rejecting him because if I did so, he would harm me. My father finished sleeping with me and told me to make sure nobody would hear about it or else he'd kill me." According to her, the development kept happening whenever she was on holiday as she was a student in a boarding school. She said her father slept with her every day of her vacation except whenever she was having periods. "He would spill the sperm on my tummy; he didn't spill it inside of me. I would beg him; I would tell him that I was not his girlfriend or wife, I'm his daughter and that it was not supposed to be happening but he would tell me that was how fathers should play with their daughters," she said. Whitney said her father kept telling her that she was still 'intact' because he was not penetrating, but 'on the surface'. "He calls me babe – Toyin tomato. He tells me that I am his small wife. Last year, when he was planning to get married, he told me that the wife he was getting married to was going to be the senior wife while I would be the junior wife. He told me he didn't want to get me pregnant yet, he said he would get me pregnant eventually but not yet." The distraught teenager said she was eventually diagnosed with an ovarian cyst which needed a surgery but her father bluntly refused to pay for the surgery, stating that he had nothing to lose if she died. "When he was getting married, I was very happy that I would finally be free; he would be leaving my grandmother's house at last but nothing like that ever happened." Whitney said she had come back from school due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was invited by her father, who is now married, to come over to his house to help his wife with some things in the kitchen. "I went there in the morning but when I got there, I didn't find the wife; she had moved out of the house. That day, my father slept with me from morning till evening, I could not walk, I couldn't sit nor even stand. In the evening, he sent me back to my grandmother's house." She said she was so depressed that she had to open a Facebook account so she could reach out to her mother, but her father found out and beat her badly. "He always told me that any day he heard about it, he would kill me. I wonder how I could keep such a thing to myself alone. I am going to die and I don't want to suffer till when I die, so it's better I end my life now. I took an insecticide which is popularly known as Sniper, but he said since I wanted to kill myself, he would help me end my life. He strangled me. "He told me to go and die outside, I was so weak but thank God I was rescued and taken to the hospital where the insecticide was flushed out. Coming back from the hospital, my father still sexually abused me that same day." Whitney said she suffered too much pain and decided to open up to her aunt, who, rather than protect her, blamed her for keeping quiet for so long. "She said since I'd been quiet all this while, it means that I'd been enjoying it. She called my grandmother to inform her and my grandmother said she hoped no one knew about it; they all said I should keep quiet. My father's younger sister who also heard about it said since I'd been quiet all this while, I should keep quiet." She said one of her uncles who heard about the Sniper incident asked her to come for a visit in his house and while she was on her way there, her aunt warned her against telling anyone about the sexual molestation. "I was in my uncle's house when I felt I couldn't just keep it to myself, I opened up to his wife and was able to reach my mum. Now that my mother is here, I know I will get justice." SaharaReporters gathered that the Director, Social Welfare, FCT and Margaret Ochalla, DCP Gender Force Headquarters have taken up the case and the perpetrator has been arrested. According to the mandated reporter, Alfred Akerele, the mother of the girl came in from Cameroon last week and the victim is now doing very fine. "Everything happened in Taraba State but immediately we got the report, I spoke to the social welfare in Abuja. We called the director and the DCP Margaret Ochalla. There's a Human Rights radio station in Abuja – Berekete. They're working very hard to get justice for her. The case is under control, " he said.