The climax of the Kankara melodrama was the reception organised for the return of the kidnapped Katsina schoolboys when the students were chosen to be spoken to in Hausa, by President Muhammadu Buhari. One would have concluded on previous primary languages as being the expression of persons who suffer dementia. But Buhari's antecedents will not excuse dementia as reason for his choice. Amazingly, a bemused nation and bemoaned world eagerly waiting to listen to the president's words watched helplessly as he spoke in Hausa without an interpreter. Buhari has maintained his political leadership of Northern Nigeria in a very strategic way, always choosing to speak to his people whenever the world needs words from him. This however is a sign that shouldn't be taken for granted but we should snitch till words are found for the world at large, particularly the United Nations. The International Court of Justice should by now be informed of the need to adjudicate on Nigerian terrorism cases as our government can no longer be trusted. The phrase: "The dog and the baboon would all be soaked in blood" made popular by General Muhammadu Buhari was expressed in Hausa when he was the candidate of Congress of Progressive Change (CPC) during the 2011 presidential election and when he was receiving members of his party from Niger State who had come to visit him on the 14th of May, 2011 after the election. In his usual manner of strategic communication, Buhari stealthily said in Hausa that there were three types of Boko Haram in the country with Federal Government topping his list, followed by those he describes as criminals who steal and kill Nigerians in the name of religion and the third as the original one led by the late Muhammadu Yusuf. The author, Dr Bolaji O. Akinyemi The candidate of CPC then painted a gory picture of Nigeria as that of a dog and a monkey engaged in a battle for survival. In that particular year (2011) terrorism attack on Christmas day became our experience as a nation. A Yoruba adage says: "Ti aja ba ni eni lehin, a pa obo," meaning that a dog that has human backing will obviously overpower a monkey and kill it. The many seemingly triumphant operations of Boko Haramists against the Nigerian state is not of her military might, but of the conspiracy of humans who are backing dogs to bath the monkeys in blood. St Theresa's Catholic Church in Madala, a satellite town about 40km from the centre of Nigeria's Federal Capital Territory was the first to experience blood bath. The church was packed when the bomb exploded. A parishioner, Timothy Onyekwere, from South Eastern Nigeria spoke in anguish: "We were in church with my family when we heard the explosion..I just ran out. Now I don't even know where my children or wife are." Mountain of Fire and Miracles ministry, a mission strand from South West Nigeria Apostolic movement and a predominantly Yoruba membership church was the next to be turned to a slaughter slab of human beings. It was located in an ethnically and religiously mixed town of Jos. Gadaka in Yobe State had its fair share of Christmas day lamentations. North eastern town of Damaturu, the capital of Yobe State, was struck by a suicide bomber at the State Security Service. Kabiru Sokoto, a suspect in the Chrismas day bomb attack of St. Theresa Catholic Church in Madalla was later captured by security forces in January 2021. He escaped a day later in a manner yet to be made clear to the public by the Nigerian authorities. He was rearrested a month later at the residence of an highly placed Nigerian who is also a Muslim. We are permanently being encouraged by this government to deny the obvious by keeping religion and tribes out of our national situation, particularly regarding the hydra monster insecurity with tripartite filaments like major heads of banditry, herdsmen and Boko Haram.  Though they differ in operations, they are unified in one aim: Destruction of lives and property of communities that are predominantly non Hausa/Fulani tribes or majorly Christian settlements. Until we face our fear, it will keep consuming us from the rear. The Kankara (schoolboys)  episode has led to the synergy of forces of which we all must be worried, particularly the church, the Federal Government of Nigeria now led by Muhammadu Buhari who once topped the list of his three types of Boko Haram, the other being persons who steal and kill Nigerians in the name of religion and the original Boko Haram. The bandits who abducted the Kankara schoolboys fit into the description of Buhari. Those who steal and kill in the name of religion, Southern Kaduna, Zamfara, Kastina and Sokoto states all in the North West are the worst hit states of Nigeria by bandits. Boko Haram, which has its operational territory mostly restricted to the North East claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of the schoolboys. The Federal Government which got her over protected Fulani herdsmen organisation, Miyetti Allah, to act as its liaison and negotiate the release of the boys is, for me, a conspiracy. Miyetti Allah is of course a friend of the leadership of Christians Association of Nigerian (CAC), being the first to visit and congratulate Dr Samson Ayokunke after his election as the president of the organisation. I need not go into atrocities that Miyetti Allah claimed responsibilities for to prove to our CAN leadership that we are known for whom we are by friends that we are seen with. The details of Kabiru Sokoto where about is hidden from the public, whereas simple Google of al-Nigeria the "Christmas day bomber" would bring out detailed offences and sentences of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a Nigerian-born Islamic terrorist who, at the age of 23, confessed to and was convicted for attempting to detonate plastic explosives hidden in his underwear while on board Northwest airline flight 253, enroute from Amsterdam to Detriot, Michigan USA on Christmas day 2009. Even, the details of the facility where he is serving his sentences are on the Google. It remains a mystery why our Boko Haram Federal Government (now fortunately, but unfortunately as unfolding events have revealed) has not improved on the security architecture of the country, but has chosen to rather promote the integration of 'repentant' Boko Haram fighters into our society with pomp. We should ask the new leader of our Boko Haram Government where Kabiru Sokoto and his like sentenced for terrorism offences are.Or have they been exchanged for victims of the Kankara abduction if Miyetti Allah's claim that ransom wasn't paid as substantiated by the Federal Government is anything to go by? Then we must ask what was given in exchange for the children? Until these questions are convincingly answered, I will advise all blocs of Christian Associations of Nigeria, particularly the Catholic, and Individuals churches with very bitter experiences of terrorists attacks, such as, COCIN ECWA, Winners Chapel and Mountain of Fire and MiraclMiracles ministry to take their destinies in their hands away from leaders who don't understand servant leadership and demands of kingdom stewardship. They should place their branches on Faith on Fire Red Alert 2021. Same goes for non Hausa/Fulani communities in North West and East who are the target of this calculated violence, the counsel of Retired General T.Y Danjuma; "that to wait on the authorities to stop the killings is to be ready to get killed one after the other till we all get wiped out in the genocide. The baboons must look beyond the dogs and strategised to over power the dogs and unmasked the masquerades that their human criminal elements may be brought to book. A very happy and prosperous 2021 to all lovers of peace, irrespective of tribes, tongues and religions.