Leo Ogor, a House of Representatives member, representing Isoko federal constituency, was said to have shed tears and allegedly threatened suicide if the person he chose is denied the chairmanship position in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State in the forthcoming local elections in the state. SaharaReporters reliably gathered that the House's former minority leader cried and threatened suicide a few days ago in a telephone conversation with the state's governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, over the rejection of his chosen aspirant.  The Peoples Democratic Party in the area has been thrown into a crisis over the party's candidates for the local elections after the Delta State Independent Electoral Commission, (DSIEC) announced March 6, 2021, as the date for the local government elections. A one-time executive member of PDP in the state and Ogor's political associate, who participated in the telephone conversation, told our correspondent that Governor Okowa had earlier directed that the PDP primary for the chairmanship in the local government be thrown opened, but Ogor pleaded with the governor that he should be allowed to singlehandedly select the chairmanship candidate. "Leo Ogor put a call to his excellency, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, that he be allowed to produce the next chairman in Isoko North, that his first candidate, Joseph Otheremu, was rejected and why should his second candidate, Christian Iteire, be rejected again," the source said. "Ogor, during the phone call, lamented bitterly on why Okowa was allowing people to humiliate him. At this point, he started shedding tears and threatened suicide if he's not allowed to produce the next chairman in Isoko North comes March 6, 2021. Honourable Ogor only succeeded in getting the governor with his emotional blackmail. "Just on Monday, the state chairman of PDP, Kingsley Esiso, called for a meeting of leaders of the party in Isoko North at his VIP lodge, government house Asaba and was attended by Ogor, Emmanuel Ogidi, and few others. As the meeting was going on, all of a sudden, we saw that Ogor was shivering seriously and based on his fragile health, it was then resolved that he be allowed to have his way by producing the next chairman." Last week, some top members of PDP in the area had walked out on the former minority leader and others during the party's caucus meeting at the country home of the federal lawmaker at Ozoro. An official of the party in the locality told our correspondent that the choice of Iteire was not good. "This is another case of former late President Yar'dua who died in office. Leo camp has been jittery seriously ever since the governor mandated Isoko North to go for primaries because they know they are not on the ground. They are very much aware that the Isoko North people have rejected them. Leo's candidate is facing some serious health challenges, and if care is not taken, he might die in office, and we don't want such." Ogor did not answer calls from SaharaReporters. One of his aides, who pleaded anonymity said, "The story is false and from the pit of hell without any iota of truth in it. So you believe that too that Leo Ogor can cry and threatened suicide because of mere council chairman slot.? I am aware he only told the governor that it is because of his fragile health; hence he's been treated this manner."