My persons of the year are the persons that had the greatest impact on Nigeria and on the lives of Nigeria this year for good or ill. People who are visually impaired cannot see. Mice too. Such people with the kind of impairment cannot make an informed judgement and opinion on what they would have seen. But there are some people who are not suffering from visual impairment who make statements which clearly indicate that they suffer from acute blindness. Based on the statements of Femi Adesina, Garba Shehu (both media and publicity advisers to General Muhammadu Buhari), and Lai Mohammed minister of information and culture, there’s every reason that The Three Blind Mice can’t see. Femi Adesina, Lai Mohammed, Garba Shehu. Presenting the Three Blind Mice in their own words: Femi Adesina, Deacon of Four Square Church is a spiritual host of fabrication. On Lekki massacre: Adesina said “If President Buhari hadn’t exercised the restraint and tolerance of a father, we would have been talking of something else in the country. The rivers of Nigeria could have turned crimson, and mourning and lamentations would have suffused the land. But we are thankful for the father in President Buhari, patient and enduring, almost to a fault.” Justifying the unending killings, kidnapping, by Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen terrorists, he said: “There were a times bombs used to go off in this country like fire crackers. There could be five, six bombings in one day. Now, you can have two, three months with no single case of bombing. Let’s be thankful for small mercies. Any mercies we receive, let’s be thankful for it and let’s not dwell on negatives alone.” On RUGA, he said: “It will be better for those that were opposed to cattle ranching to provide lands than to die in the herdsmen attacks. What would the land be used for if those who own it are dead at the end of the day? Garba Shehu the arrogant, illiterate, and unpolished Fulani said this on security: “President Muhammadu Buhari has demonstrated unquestionable capacity to protect Nigerians. President Buhari’s integrity, uprightness and probity are intact and well known... Nigerians are convinced he is honest.” On Buhari’s performance, he said: “With so much to show and many more coming, it is little surprise that President Buhari would be the object of envy and harsh unfair challenges by politicians who failed to deliver...” When 43 Zabarmari rice farmers were killed Boko Haram, Shehu said “The farmers did not get clearance from the military before they went to the rice fields.” Listen to Lai Mohammed, the corrupt liar profiteer: “My regret in this government is that Nigerians have failed to appreciate that the government is doing much more with much less.” On press freedom: “When it comes to freedom of the press, we are doing extremely well.” On social media: “If we don’t regulate social media, it will destroy us. If China can control over 1.3 billion people on social media, I see no reason why Nigeria cannot attempt controlling 180 million people.” For their self-righteousness, for being exalted with a chauvinistic stink, for pledging their alliance to Buhari with their hearts upon their sleeves, for whining and moaning in defense of Buhari, for their numblingly rote statements in a kindergarten cadence, and for being obviously blind to the damage done to their conscience, God, and the Nigerian people, My Persons Of The Year Award goes to The Three Blind Mice!