With 22 housing estate units at Abuja Airport Road, Abuja’s leading real estate developer, T Pumpy Concept, has flagged off a December discount sale that offers prospective homeowners opportunities to purchase a plot of land for the sum of N1.5m instead of the market value of  N2.5m at its Kuje estate, a huge 40 per cent discount.Beside the slash in price, buyers are given 50kg bag of rice throughout December. For agents who broker the transaction, the enterprising and real estate firm is offering them a 10% agency fee, instead of the conventional 5 per cent.  





This promo is a continuation of the firm’s slash-in-price property offer aimed at alleviating the economic effects of Covid-19. The company gave a Honda Crosstour to her best agent last year. As part of its December Discount promo, the real estate developer is also offering for sale plot of land in its T Pumpy Kiddies Estate.  





Akintayo Adaralegbe, the MD/CEO of the company, said, “With N399, 000, your child is a landowner with a certificate of occupancy. For the said amount, the child gets a 600 square metre land, upon which can be built  a three-bedroom bungalow, four-bedroom penthouse or even four or five-bedroom duplex.” He further reiterated T Pumpy’s commitment to ensuring that “every man’s dream to own a house is actualized.” While T Pumpy Concept LTD has 22 housing estates spread across Kyami, Kasana, Kuje, Lugbe, Gwagwalada and other places in the nation’s capital, the ongoing December discount promo is exclusive to its Lugbe estates along the Airport Road.Pumpy Concept LTD, a registered company that deals in the sales of lands and estate plots since 2009, has over the past ten years built a reputation as an industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction.T. Pumpy Concept Limited is a progressive property developer that prides itself on its proven track records, passion and commitment to deliver superior value in design, quality and services in our developments to our customers. T. Pumpy Concept is a registered company that deals majorly in the sales of lands and estate plots. The company has been in existence since 2009, and it’s committed to making its utmost contribution to the development process of our environment in the area mentioned above, for the betterment of all Nigerians.The T-Pumpy Concept team has decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve.Call us today: Corporate Office Address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja.Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja.Follow us on our social media platforms:Instagram: T.pumpy_estatesFacebook: Tpumpy EstatesYouTube: T.pumpy EstatesWebsite: http://tpumpyconcept.comWhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380