The African Action Congress has expressed its dissatisfaction with the trumped-up charges and trial of its national chairman, Omoyele Sowore, and another associate, Olawale Adebayo, by the Nigerian government. AAC on Tuesday expressed disappointment with the bogus charges and persecution of the duo by the government for demanding good governance. Omoyele Sowore The party warned that it would embark on solidarity march to the Federal High Court in Abuja while demanding that all baseless charges against Sowore and Adebayo be dropped.  Sowore @YeleSowore is the national Chairman of @aacparty & has been actively involved in Nigeria's democracy for over 3 decades as an activist of repute. In August 2019, he spent 5 months in detention over his activism and has since been under city arrest till now. #FreeSowore pic.twitter.com/cWsyMCPEKJ   We will storm Federal High Court Abuja on Dec 10th & 11th 2020 in solidarity with @YeleSowore & @IamMandate . We will also demand all bogus charges against them be dropped. Protest is not a crime & every attempt to criminalize it will be resisted! Join us massively! #FreeSowore pic.twitter.com/X1cdfqo4mL  Reacting to the party's tweets, a Twitter user @jharmo tweeted, "Sowore will appear at the Federal High Court Abuja on Dec 10 and 11. The @MBuhari regime has been using the judiciary to adjourn every sitting because they have no case to prove. We must storm the court in solidarity as protest is not a crime. Enough is Enough. Sowore will appear at the Federal High Court Abuja on Dec 10th & 11th. The @MBuhari regime has been using the judiciary to adjourn every sittings because they have no case to prove. We must storm the court in solidarity as protest is not a crime. Enough is Enough!#FreeSowore pic.twitter.com/4WoMInY5fL  "Imprisoned for more than four months, under city arrest for more than 11 months, denied access to the family for more than 15 months, all for calling a peaceful protest! @YeleSowore must not spend another Christmas without access to his family. Drop all charges against him." Imprisoned for more than 4 months, under city arrest for more than 11 months, denied access to family for more than 15 months, all for calling a peaceful protest! @YeleSowore must not spend another Christmas without access to his family. Drop all charges against him.#FreeSowore pic.twitter.com/n9yYESOASq  Another Twitter user, @ValentineOjo5, wrote that "The court should stop adjourning a case that has no legal backing. Let us hear the verdict now, or nobody goes home for Christmas. You can't be giving Boko Haram Amnesty, Paying Bandits while peaceful protesters are being detained illegally." The court should stop adjourning a case that has no legal backing. Let us hear the verdict now or nobody goes home for Christmas. You can’t be giving Boko Haram Amnesty, Paying Bandits while peaceful protesters are being detained illegally. #FreeSowore#RevolutionNow pic.twitter.com/8BNqSZbUbj  "The strategy of this government is to keep him still 2023 election before he is released because they don't want him to disrupt their evil agenda towards this country. APC and PDP are afraid of this guy!" @MineUyi tweeted. The strategy of this government is just to keep him still 2023 election before he will be released, because they don't want him to disrupt their evil agenda towards this country.APC and PDP are afraid of this guy! https://t.co/DUQDTFNaVQ 