Nigerians have criticised the ruling All Progressives Congress for keeping silent over the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to meet with the parents of over 300 students of the Government Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State who were abducted last week. The APC was also knocked for choosing to remain quiet over the abduction until on Thursday when the party issued a scanty release criticising the protest held in Abuja by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party.  The president of the Campaign for Democracy, Abdul Usman, in an interview with SaharaReporters, said he was not surprised that the APC could not react since President Buhari was not empathetic towards the plights of the students. He said: "We have a country that is running on autopilot, in the sense that after this abduction, the president never showed his remorsefulness, never showed his empathy towards little kids by way of going to show concern to the parents. He only sent a delegation. I think if the head is rotten, the body is equally loose. "Nothing can be expected from the APC since the president is the leader of the APC. The APC-led administration has failed us woefully. We aspired, and we craved for a positive change, not knowing that we were only craving for doom for a nation. It is quite pathetic; unfortunately, they cannot react to this video, the best thing they know how to do is come and tell us lies like they used to." Boko Haram terrorists had claimed to be responsible for the mass abduction which mirrors the 2014 kidnapping of schoolgirls in Chibok Borno State by the Islamic terrorists who have also released a video to confirm that they were responsible for the Kankara abduction. Despite the outrage and rising insecurity, the APC had seemingly remained silent over the president's indifference – an action which contradicts their stance against former President Goodluck Jonathan when the Chibok girls were kidnapped. Taofeek Gani, the Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, told SaharaReporters it had become clear the atrocities preceding the Buhari administration had been orchestrated by the chieftains of the APC. He said, "I can tell you that their counterparts in the South-South and the rest know well that Boko Haram, which is the political wing, was deliberate to embarrass Jonathan out of the government. Now they are not able to control it any longer because they know that they instigated it. "One day, one time, one of them will have to come out to confess to Nigerians, the likes of El-rufai, Yahya Bello of Kogi state and one or two of them are suspects in this regard. They know well about this issue of Boko Haram. "The international community now sees Nigeria as very unserious because of the acts of the president, and because the president represents the image of Nigeria. This country has gone a thousand times below in integrity, hope and future. "Boko Haram is so bold enough to go and kidnap our students--that number and then still come on air to say they did it and proudly too. The only reason they can do it is that the APC government has compromised. This is the opportunity for the government to attack these areas where this Boko Haram occupies and cleanse them off the land, but they cannot do it."