 Documents obtained by SaharaReporters have further revealed that Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Justice Sector Reform, Mrs Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, took part in a money laundering act by receiving monies illegally from a former Attorney-General of Nigeria, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), and Damian D. Dodo. SaharaReporters had published that in the charge sheet against Adoke by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibekaku-Nwagwu was fingered to have received part of a N150m largesse from Adoke paid as kickbacks by Dodo. Ibekaku-Nwagwu has denied having any involvement in the deal and threatened legal action. 



See Also






Corruption
President Buhari's Judicial Reforms Adviser, Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, Indicted For Illegally Diverting Public Funds
25 Comments
2 Days Ago She claimed that the EFCC was yet to inform her of how she benefitted personally from the funds laundered by Adoke. Meanwhile, the EFCC in the case only attempted to prosecute Adoke, Damian Dodo and Abdulahi Ahmed Yola. It is however, unclear why the commission was not prosecuting Ibekaku-Nwagwu and other names mentioned in the charge sheet. The commission in the suit against Adoke at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, is charging him for on alleged acceptance and spending of about N797.3m. In one of the counts, Ibekaku-Nwagwu was mentioned to have received part of a N8.6m, which was part of a cash backed from the sum of N150m removed from the country’s fund without appropriation of an Act of the National Assembly. "That you Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN) and Abdullahi Ahmed Yola on or about 8th of September 2011 in Abuja within the jurisdiction of this honourable court while being public officers used your position as Attorney-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Justice to confer corrupt advantage of the total sum of N8.6m on public officers to wit: Mohammed Bello Adoke, Peter Akpe, Mrs Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, Victoria Umoren and Fatima Audu when you approved the payment of the sum which payment was cash backed from the sum of N150m received into Sterling Bank PLC account no 000811505 from Damian D. Dodo (SAN) without appropriation of an Act of the National Assembly and you thereby committed an offence punishable under section 19 of the corrupt practices and other related offences act, 2000," the charge reads. 