  Nigeria's former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has called on United States President, Donald Trump, not to punish Nigerians for the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari's regime. The ex-VP while reacting to the latest visa ban slammed on Nigerians willing to relocate to the US, called on President Trump to rescind his decision for the sake of Nigerians he described as being a major force in America’s development. He said, “I received with sadness the policy of the government of the United States of America to place Nigeria on its travel ban list. “While I understand the reasons given by the Trump administration (the failure of the Muhammadu Buhari led administration to share information and to address issues of terrorism), the ban does not take into account the pro-American sentiments of the Nigerian public and the solidarity previous Nigerian administrations had with the United States. Once again, I call on President @realDonaldTrump to consider adopting measures that individually target those in government who have failed in their duties, rather than target the entire Nigerian population.  “I urge the government of President Donald Trump to consider the history of US-Nigerian relationships. “Nigeria was one of the few African nations that joined the US-led coalition during Operation Desert Storm between 1990-1991 when the United States championed the liberation of Kuwait. “The Trump administration may also consider the pivotal role Nigeria, in partnership with the US, played in bringing peace to Liberia, an American sphere of influence, that now enjoys democracy because Nigerian blood and money paved the way for peace in that nation. 



See Also






United States of America
United States Imposes Immigrant Visa Ban On Nigeria, Others
15 Comments
15 Hours Ago “Nigeria has also consistently voted in support of the United States and her allies at the UN and other multilateral world bodies. This is even as we are perhaps the biggest trading partner that the United States has in Africa, even where we had alternatives. “Nigerians love the United States and have been a major force for the positive development of that great nation: 77% of all Black doctors in the United States are Nigerians. “Nigerians are also the most educated immigrant community in America bar none. “Surely, the US stands to benefit if it allows open borders with a country like Nigeria that is able to provide skilled, hardworking and dedicated personnel in a two-way traffic. “The current Nigerian administration may have its deficiencies and deep faults, but the Nigeria people ought not to be punished for their inefficiencies." Eritrea, Sudan, Tanzania, Kyrgyzstan, and Myanmar are the other countries affected by the US visa Ban.