  President Muhammadu Buhari has once again vowed to rescue Leah Sharibu from the captivity of Boko Haram. Buhari said this while speaking on the second anniversary of the kidnap of Sharibu from her school along with 109 girls. The government negotiated the release of the girls but failed to make the terrorist group release Sharibu. Boko Haram held on to her because she refused to denounce Christianity and convert to Islam. Recall that SaharaReporters had exclusively reported that Sharibu gave birth for one of Boko Haram's commanders after she was forcefully married. Reiterating his promise to rescue Sharibu, Buhari, in a statement, said that he would continue to push for her release from her captive. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Leah Sheribu Gives Birth To Baby Boy For Boko Haram Commander After Being Forced To Convert To Islam
118 Comments
3 Weeks Ago He stressed that everyone has the right to choose religion without intimidation or fear. He added that his administration would double its effort to rescue Sharibu as he called for unity among Nigerians in ending insurgency and terrorism in the country. Buhari said, “Two years ago, 110 innocent children from the town of Dapchi were taken, against their will, by the terrorists of Boko Haram. 107 survived the ordeal. Today all but one – Leah Sharibu – are returned to their families. “Now aged 16, Leah remains in the hands of the terrorists – they say because she refuses to renounce her Christian faith. “We say, as the government for and of all Nigerians, that no person has the right to force another to change their faith against their will and that all life is sacred. “This government continues and seeks to secure the release of all children and captives of terrorists – and we do so regardless of their creed or the name of their creator. “As we redouble our efforts for Leah’s return, we can never allow the terrorists to divide us – Christian against Muslim, Muslim against Christian. We are all Sons of Abraham. And all Nigerians have the same worth and rights before the law, and before God.”