  President of the Nigerian Senate, Ahmad Lawan, disclosed on Tuesday that the upper legislative chamber may next week consider the report of an ad-hoc committee on security challenges with a view to finding solutions to Nigeria’s security problems. Lawan made the disclosure during the plenary sequel to the consideration of a motion brought to the floor by Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (APC, Adamawa Central). The Senate had on January 29, 2020, set up the ad-hoc committee chaired by Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, to interface with security agencies on the level of insecurity in the country and report back to the upper chamber within two weeks. According to Lawan, the Senate will engage with the executive arm of government on the resolutions of the committee as contained in its report. He added that the upper chamber will also work closely with the House of Representatives and Nigerian citizens towards ensuring that solutions were found to the lingering security problems in the country. He said, “The Senate discussed and debated so much on the insecurity in the country and set up an ad-hoc committee under the leadership of the Senate Leader. “The committee is working very hard, we are trying to look for solutions to the insecurity bedevilling the country. We are not going to rest on our oars until we are able to provide solutions. “This is the essence of our being in government. Of course, it will require that we work with the House of Representatives and executive, as well as the citizens because I believe that the citizens have to be taken into confidence in the fight against insecurity. “So, we will not waste any time, as soon as the report is ready, I believe by next week, probably the report will be ready. We are going to look at the report of the ad-hoc committee and take those important and very viable resolutions, and engage with the executive arm of government. “I think we are on the same page with the executive arm of government, everybody is worried, and we will do whatever it takes.” Consequently, the Senate in a three-point resolution urged Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, to re-establish a military command base in Garkida and also all major settlements bordering Sambisa Forest.