  The management of Integrated Intelligence Imaging West Africa, the concessionaire of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria collecting revenue at the access gate of the airport, on Friday accused the management of the agency of contempt of court. The concessionaire alleged that FAAN’s workers on Thursday morning vandalised its property at the airport despite the fact that the case was at the Federal High Court in Lagos. The concessionaire, through its solicitor, Charles Ebhoman, told journalists that despite the fact that the case was in court, workers of the agency with active connivance of unions, came into its premises to vandalise electricity cables, gadgets and water system. He also said that the court in a suit, FHC/L/CS/2364/2019, on February 18, 2019, ordered that all parties maintain status-quo, adding that February 28 had been fixed for hearing of pending application. Speaking further on the vandalisation of I-Cube properties, Ebhoman described the attitude of the workers as unfortunate, adding that the agency should not be a party to vandalism. He said, “Despite the existence of a court order, they came into the premises to vandalise my client’s properties, it is very unfortunate that an agency of government whose mantra is that of the rule of law is going against the law." He claimed that I-Cube was remitting N68m to FAAN on a monthly basis even when the authority refused to respond to the letter written to it three months before the expiration of the contract in February 2019. Tunji Olaosun, Head of Strategy, I-Cube, who took journalists round the vandalised facilities, explained that on February 20, 2020, some staff of FAAN came into the premises of company with saw, destroyed the water system and cut off electrical cables at the company. But Danjuma Ahmed, Chairman of Air Transport Staff Senior Services Association of Nigeria (FAAN branch), said, "After the incident of February 3, they were mandated to leave the premises but pleaded with FAAN management to give them time, but after sometime, there was no sign to move but when we went on inspection with a director, we realised that they had movable things. "They agreed that they will move by end of this month but we said no because they are using the facilities to sell our stickers, we saw people who came to buy stickers on that day. “So, we told them to leave. We told them that if they refused to move, we will cut of their electricity and water supply and we are going to lock up the premises. They should pack their property and leave because their contract has expired.”