  Hanan, daughter of President Muhammadu Buhari, has refused to counter the allegations against her that she violated the human rights of Anthony Okolie, a young businessman based in Asaba, Delta State, over a disputed MTN SIM card. Hanan, through her Lawyer, M. E Sheriff, filed an application to challenge the jurisdiction of the court by stating that the matter should have been instituted at the Federal High Court, Abuja, and not the Federal High Court in Asaba. However, the young lady refused to file any counter affidavit to the one containing Okolie's allegations. Addressing the Court, Okolie's lawyer, Tope Akinyode, who is also the National President of Revolutionary Lawyer's Forum, maintained that the inability of Hanan to file a counter affidavit occasioned no denial of the applicant's allegations against the respondents. When the judge inquired from Hanan's lawyer on why he refused to counter the applicant's allegations, the lawyer said, “We haven't seen a reason to reply them”. Meanwhile, telecommunications company, MTN, and the Department of State Services, who are co-defendants as Hanan in the suit, also refused to file any court process to challenge Okolie's case. DSS lawyer explained that he was just aware of the suit a week ago and the case file had not been sent to him. Giving its own reasons for refusal to file court process, MTN's lawyer said he was yet to receive further directives from his client. Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, who presided over the case, ordered all parties to file their court processes within two weeks so that the court can hear the case on its merit. During the court case, Akinyode told the court that the DSS had been trailing him and his client in a bid to further violate their human rights. This led the judge to instruct DSS lawyer to inform his colleagues to desist from further harassing the applicant. All parties were represented by their lawyers and the case had been adjourned until March 3, 2020 for hearing. Recall that Okolie was unlawfully detained for 10 weeks by the DSS on the orders of Hanan for purchasing and using a mobile telephone number (SIM card) previously used but abandoned by her. Okolie but the item at an MTN outlet in Asaba and was issued official receipt for the purchase.