 A businessman, Chief Solomon Nwadiogbu, has asked the Federal High Court in Lagos State to reassign his case against the management of Eko Hotel and Suites. Nwadiogbu had filed a suit against the management of the popular hotel over the alleged seizure of his personal belongings valued at about N400m. He alleged that the judge had yet to hear it after almost a year of being assigned the case. According to Nwadiogbu, who is the claimant in suit No. FHC/L/CS/630/2019 between him and Eko Hotels and Suites, reassigning the case will fasten its hearing. He said, “But it is surprising that nearly one year after filing the suit at the Federal High Court and the reassignment of the case, it has not been heard.” Upon the delays, the businessman said he wrote a letter to the Federal High Court in Lagos asking that his case be transferred to another judge. He added, “My cause for concern is as to why the case had been delayed as all the papers of both parties in this said case had been before the judge since June 2019.” In a statement, Media Adviser to Nwadiogbu, Mr Fidelis Chukwuma, said the businessman was a regular guest of Eko Hotel and Suites between 2013 and 2019. He said, “The businessmen decided to quit his stay in the hotel because he felt that he cannot continue to put up with what was going on there. “But to his chagrin, he was accused of not paying his bills on foods in the hotel for six years. He told them that he needs proof of their claims. “To his surprise, when he decided to move his cars out from the hotel premises, the hotel management prevented him, thereby stalling the removal of four cars belonging to his company and other properties worth over N400m on the account that he owed the hotel N18m. “Irked by the development, the businessman approached a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos and filed his case with all documented pieces of evidence. “But since April 2019 till date, the case with Suit No. FHC/L/CS/630/2019 has not been put up for hearing and has continued to suffer several adjournments by the assigned judge for the case. “For instance, when the case was called in June 2019, it was surprisingly adjourned to November 2019.” When contacted by SaharaReporters, management of Eko Hotel refused to speak on the matter because the case was before a court.