 There has been chaos at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, since Sunday after the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria diverted all arriving flights to the E-wing of the terminal. There was also tension among arriving passengers as Chinese citizens, who arrived the country with other nationals were not isolated from the other passengers. There has been Covid-19 outbreak in China with over 1,500 persons killed by the virus in that country. A source close to the terminal told our correspondent on Sunday night and on Monday morning that the management had shot the D-wing of the terminal, which served as another arriving terminal for passengers. It was learnt that the D-wing was closed on Saturday in order to allow connection between the old terminal and the new terminal, which had been under construction since 2013. As at 10pm on Sunday, hundreds of passengers were at the E-wing of the terminal awaiting immigration clearance. It was also learnt that the equipment of Nigeria Immigration Service malfunctioned several times on Sunday night, which further compounded the challenges of travellers especially those needing visa-on-arrival. Some of the flights that were diverted to the E-wing of the terminal included Qatar Airways, Turkish Airlines, KLM Airways, South African Airways, African World Airlines and other West Coast flights. As at Monday morning, Virgin Atlantic and some West coast flights, which arrived the country, were also diverted to the E-wing of the terminal. The source said, “FAAN had diverted all flights to the E-wing of the terminal since Sunday and shut the D-wing. This diversion has caused a huge chaos at the terminal and coupled with the fact that the place is not well-ventilated. “Also on arrival are lots of Chinese that, which gave gross concern about the safety air travellers. The flights were diverted to E-wing because of the planned construction work at the terminal, which is to link the old terminal with the new one. But, the fact is that the contractor was not ready to commence the work, yet.” At least 25 foreign airlines land and take off from the international wing of the Lagos airport daily.