 A United States lawmaker, Josh Gottheimer, has expressed concerns over the trial of pro-democracy activist and journalist, Omoyele Sowore. The lawmaker while addressing Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, expressed concerns over the prolong restrictions of Sowore. Sowore was released from detention on December 24, 2019 by the Department of State Services after months of unlawful detention. However, following his release on bail by a federal high court, Sowore has been restricted to Abuja, the capital city of Nigeria, as demanded by his bail condition. Reacting to this restriction, Gottheimer informed Pelosi of the advocacy New Jersey lawmakers had been engaged in to ensure that the Nigerian Government obeyed its own laws in the case against the journalist. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: DSS Arrests Sowore
562 Comments
6 Months Ago Senators Bob Menendez and Cory Booker had on multiple occasions called for the release of Sowore from detention. Gottheimer said, “Madam Speaker, this morning hardworking families across the Northern New Jersey woke up, made breakfast, and wished each other goodbye before leaving for work or school. But our thoughts are with one family that was unable to be together this morning. The Sowore family. “That's because the husband and father remains in Nigeria pending the outcome of his trial. “For months, members of the New Jersey delegation including Senator Menendez and Booker have been following his case and working together with the community to advocate on behalf of our neighbour and friend. “We were relieved in December he was finally released on bail but we continue to urge the government of Nigeria to follow its own laws and to do the right thing providing him with the due rights he deserves. “I want to recognise his family, especially his wife, who has dealt with a trying situation. “As representative of the fifth congressional district, I’m happy to stand with the family. We are thinking of him and praying for him. “I will not stop working until he comes home.”