The Presidency has insisted that President Muhammadu Buhari will not resign. Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, said this in response to a call by the Peoples Democratic Party for the resignation of Buhari. The PDP said Buhari abandoned his promise to fight corruption during electioneering campaigns in 2015 and 2019. Prince Uche Secondus, National Chairman of PDP, cited ongoing corruption investigations of the Niger Delta Development Commission, North-East Development Commission, Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and others as part of reasons forming their call for his resignation.  In response, Shehu accused the PDP of preferring Buhari not to investigate corruption, noting that the President was determined to continue the crusade against corruption. The statement reads, “At a time when the whole world is unifying to confront a common enemy, Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, has launched a whirlwind campaign promoting undemocratic values, the latest manifestation of which is the call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s resignation for allowing audits and investigation into several agencies of government including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. “Based on the statement issued by the embattled Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, it is clear that they would have liked the President to not investigate but to cover things up: to not wake the sleeping lion as voiced by another of their leaders. “In a democracy, an opposition party is as critical to the system as the ruling party but in the case of Nigeria, the leading party in opposition is afflicted by a life-threatening sickness, the undemocratic pandemic as a result of which they are trading away the nation’s democratic values. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: PDP Asks President Buhari To Resign Over Alleged Massive Corruption In NDDC, EFCC, Others
0 Comments
15 Hours Ago “The PDP government which exited the stage five years ago through a democratic election by voters dissatisfied with corruption on an industrial scale, policy paralysis, obsolete and decaying essential infrastructure appears to have forgotten the reason for their stunning defeat and seem hell-bent on the fooling the nation, yet again for another ride to power. “President Buhari will not resign. He is determined to continue the crusade against corruption, both legacy and recently unearthed cases, that are found to be shabbily handled, and in some cases unattended to by past administrations. The National Assembly, by virtue of its right to conduct its oversight function is currently carrying out own investigations. Additionally, the security and intelligence agencies are equally doing their part and must be given the time and space to conclude their work and present their reports. “The PDP cannot scare the government from probing the grave allegations made against MDAs and their chiefs because, failure to do so will amount to a historic betrayal of public trust. “The PDP cannot subject Nigeria’s democracy to subterranean attacks and continue to pretend that they are well-meaning.”