Medical doctors and most hospital workers in Ondo state for the past one month are on strike over the gross failures of the Governor Rotimi Akeredolu government to provide Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) and some other necessary needs for medical workers who are in the frontline during this pandemic. We cannot be apologetically moved to keep analysing why a governor who is himself a carrier of the virus after being tested positive and within one week has sent another report of being negative to the public against sound medical reality. The APC government in Ondo has massively underdeveloped healthcare, failing to build on the efforts of the government before it. The Akeredolu government has shown its grave colours of being anti-people by commercializing social welfare and deepening de-industrialisation. Ondo state people must be clear about telling this government not to put our lives in deadly danger by undermining healthcare professionals and staffs. Now that the cases of coronavirus has shot up to 738 cases with 21 deaths and even the commisioner for health died of the disease, a sensitive government would spend more on healthcare and social welfare. Instead, the Rotimi Akeredolu government is busy firing nurses; neglecting healthcare professionals by not providing PPEs and such other protective Equipments. Same government has failed to increase the meagre #5000 Hazard allowances to those in the frontline of saving we all from the deadly hands of covid-19. A people decides its manners of survival when its faced by historical questions of life and death. We have a government that prefer intra-political fisticuffs than doing the real jobs of governance. A few set of individuals who rule instead of leading as they are being paid heavily to do, decide to put the lives of millions into threatening dangers . Such government must be sacked, or we all get messed up. Lessons from the United States are clear enough as Trump has put people's lives into grave danger with his interest in commercializing and dirty politics other than leading a medical war against the most feared pandemic the world has ever witnessed. Akeredolu and his friends should resign now instead of putting the lives of Ondo People into deadly threats. Healthcare workers must be given maximum supports to be safe; so that we all can be safe. This is a condition that is beyond the greedy ambitions of any one. Working people must rise and demand more hospitals per towns and streets in the 18 local governments; higher pays for Healthcare workers, and ensure standard healthcare is accessible to all!