Olu Falae, a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, has said that Nigeria was heading towards “anarchy” if nothing urgent was done to stop the incessant killings by armed bandits in the country. Falae, who spoke with SaharaReporters on Tuesday in Akure, Ondo State, condemned the killings in some villages in Southern Kaduna where over fewer 40 persons have been murdered in recent days. The elder statesman said Nigeria was already in trouble under the government of President Muhammadu Buhari due to the rising level of killings and kidnappings in the country, adding that the government appears not to understand the tactics to use to end the menace. Former SFG Olu Falae
Sahara Reporters Media He said the Nigerian people would soon have no choice than to defend themselves within the limits of the law since government had failed to ensure their security. He said, “The killings and destruction of villages particularly in the Kaduna communities is unacceptable most especially when our President (Muhammadu Buhari) is a retired military man. “I believe one of the reasons people voted Mr President to power is for him to restore order and deal with Boko Haram insurgents including these killings in Southern Kaduna and Niger. “Sadly, the killings has not stopped and Fulani herdsmen keep ravaging everywhere in the country, destroying farmlands but internally this must stop and if the government doesn’t stop it, they are encouraging self protection in the country. “For instance, if you keep attacking me and the government doesn’t do anything about it, I would have no obligation than to protect myself and with such self help, it might develop into civil war or anarchy neither of which we want.” When asked about his opinion on the repeated calls for the sack of service chiefs in the country, Falae said the President should have sacked them long time ago since their tenure in office had elapsed. He added, “There must be constitutionality if people are appointed for a specific period, they must go when their time expires. “And it’s also totally unacceptable that all the security chiefs come from the same part of the country. This is partiality because when a man holds a public office, he holds for all Nigerians. The President must be for all Nigerians and he must be seen to be so."