More details on how billions of naira were allegedly siphoned at Upper Benue River Basin Development Authority, a federal agency in Yola, Adamawa State, have emerged. A civil society organisation, Transparency Monitoring Group, on Wednesday released new corruption revelation, which it claimed were perpetrated at UBRBDA; and therefore chided anti-graft agencies in the country for turning a blind eye. In a fresh petition by its head of mission, Kabiru Garba, TMG wondered why the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission have refused to act. The petition seen by SaharaReporters, also queried why the National Assembly kept mum despite allegations of monumental fraud involving budgetary irregularities reported at UBRBDA. Given that huge funds were appropriated, the group has further alleged that, "Minister of Water Resources, Adamu Suleiman, has succeeded in planting a crony in the person of Muazu to turn the River Basin Authority into his cash cow. "Because 90 per cent of contractors who handled the 2016 contracts of the Basin Authority were coerced into signing power of attorneys and then returned the jobs to other pre-selected contracting firms. "In the same 2016 contracts, 1 Hilux van and 1 Toyota Corolla vehicles were procured at the cost of N23m each, but the MD procured refurbished ones instead of new ones as contained in the contract specifications to Sunusi Paris & co. "Another N50m was spent on Cham Dam Access Road Project in Gombe State with only three culverts to show. "The money meant for compensation of Duguba Dam has vanished into thin air. Nothing was done there, whereas the Federal Government released the money. "Each year, he puts money in the budget for Kiri Dam in Adamawa State but no development is visible. "We are also aware that the Managing Director is a signatory to the revenue account against the provisions of Financial Regulation 705 of the River Basin Financial Act." TMG presented details of annual budgetary allocations, claiming that funds were either siphoned through spurious projects or no commensurate work was done during the tenure of Abubakar Mu'azu as Managing Director. It also expressed worry that Mu'azu has continued to occupy the MD's office illegally, running into its second month after his tenure expired on June 6, 2020.