The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has kicked against the cancellation of the 2020 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), describing the action of the Nigerian government as fraudulent. The group said the federal government prevented the secondary school students from writing the examination without refunding their money. The group spoke on Tuesday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, during the 8th anniversary of the death of four student leaders who died in a road crash on July 13, 2012. Speaking at the event, Babatunde Akinteye of the NANS Joint Campus Committee Ondo axis, said the cancellation of the exams was anti-people. 

Nigeria Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu He also backed the calls for the immediate sack of the Minister of Education, Mr Adamu Adamu, who acted on behalf of the federal government to cancel the examination. He said, "Many parents have paid for their children to write the exam and now it has been cancelled. No one is talking about returning the money they already paid. "In Ondo State, for instance, the government no longer pays for students to write the exam. The parents bear the cost. Since the federal government has decided to cancel it, who now bears the loss? That is why we are saying their action is fraudulent." Akinteye also condemned the continuous closure of schools in the country as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, stressing that it had already hampered the growth of education. He urged the federal government to establish safety measures, instead of closing down the schools. "Education is the bedrock of every society. We cannot open our markets, churches and mosques and shut down schools. We need to know the best ways to live and still contain the ravaging virus," he said. Speaking on the death of the student leaders, the NANS chairman recalled that they died on their way from an award ceremony in Abuja in honour of former Governor Olusegun Mimiko. He lamented that the state government had immortalised none of the late student's leaders. Akinteye advised that automatic employment be given to the siblings or spouses of the deceased. The students who died in the accident included Dapo Awopegba, President, FUTA Student Union Government  (SUG) ; Akintola Abiodun, President, Adeyemi College of Education SUG; Aremo Olugbenga Olabode, NANS Vice President (External); and Akinlosotu Oyinkansola, President, Ondo State School of Midwifery SUG.