Abubakar Malami, Nigeria’s Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, in a desperate move to launder his image, has allegedly sponsored a group to hold a press conference against SaharaReporters over expository reports about his corruption-fuelled lifestyle. Malami, a little known lawyer before his appointment in 2015 by President Muhammadu Buhari, is today among the richest men in Nigeria with a source of wealth inexplicable. The group, Equity and Justice in Politics and Governance, on Tuesday asked the Nigerian Government to sanction and regulate the New York-based news agency. Struggling to read from a prepared text, one Musa Moses Attah, National Coordinator of the group, said Malami was a “fine gentleman” with “sterling qualities”. He said, “We at the Equity and Justice in Politics and Governance Movement have watched with keen interest how an online medium, SaharaReportes, decide to throw caution into the wind to cast aspersion and assassinate the character of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), and other government officials. “Ordinarily for us at Equity and Justice for Politics in Governance Movement, we would not have dabbled into the controversy raised by SaharaReporters but we felt we cannot keep quiet because the allegations raised border on one of the key personalities in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “The AGF is a fine gentleman who has performed his duty credibly well since his appointment into office in 2015 and because of his sterling qualities and performances, President Buhari found him worthy of reappointment." Instead of responding to the allegations against him, Malami on Monday also threatened to sue SaharaReporters within seven days if the online news publication failed to retract stories published on him on July 10, 11, and 12, 2020. In a statement by his spokesperson, Umar Gwandu, Malami said that publications by SaharaReporters on each of the dates mentioned had caused him trauma and damaged his reputation before right-thinking persons across the world. The administration of President Buhari has failed to investigate corrupt actors within the government despite many expositions by SaharaReporters and calls from Nigerians.