Five persons have been reported dead after a canoe capsized in Gurmana River in Gurmana town under Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State on Thursday night. Residents, who spoke with SaharaReporters, berated the government for abandoning them as gunmen invaded the area. They added that the government had refused to make any move to protect the local government from attacks by insurgents. The residents said efforts by volunteers and fishermen to recover the body of the five persons, who drowned on Thursday night, was ongoing.  Sani Abubakar, Co-convener of Concerned Shiroro Youth, described the tragedy as "one of the negative effects of terrorism currently ravaging substantial parts of Niger State". He said, "I witnessed the search efforts at Gurmana riverbank, the scene of the unfortunate incident. "None of the five victims who drowned had been found but rescuers are determined to recover their corpses. "In this light, frantic efforts are being intensified." SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the locals were fleeing from attacks by gunmen through the river when their canoe capsized due to surging waves. A chieftain in Shiroro, who does not want to be named, said there have been series of coordinated violent attacks by terrorists in communities and villages in Shiroro and Rafi local government areas. He said that by verifiable records, over 60 people were being held in captivity by kidnappers. "The victims are currently languishing in kidnappers' dens. "Also at Maguga, Gungu, Magami, Kukoki and other adjoining villages, there is a verifiable pocket of attacks by criminals with attendant effects such as killings, kidnappings and destruction of unquantifiable valuables. "Similarly, last night, multiple gunshots were heard from Beri-Kago in Manta Ward and it was believed to be a fire for fire encounter with the criminals and Yan Sakai (local security agents)," the chieftain said.  PHOTONEWS: Scores Drown As Canoe Conveying Shiroro Locals Fleeing Terrorist Attacks Capsizes In Niger State | Sahara Reporters@abusbello @PoliceNG SEE MORE PHOTOS: https://t.co/Xa0xA0umB7 pic.twitter.com/u53GPCXmP6  The affected communities and other neighbouring villages are now a shadow of their former selves as inhabitants for fear of attacks have since deserted them. Some residents in the state have threatened to embark on mass action if the government failed to provide a solution to attacks by gunmen in communities across the state. 