Osagie Ehanire, Nigeria’s Minister of Health, has warned Nigerian doctors planning to migrate to the United Kingdom that they will not be paid hazard allowance outside the country. On Tuesday, the UK Government had announced that it was creating a new fast-track visa route for eligible health and care professionals, who want to emigrate. Healthcare professionals including Nigerians will be eligible to apply at very low rates and short processing time from as early as August. Ehanire made the comment during the briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Thursday. He said, “I think we are one of the few countries giving hazard allowance. This UK where they are going, there is no hazard allowance, they don’t give doctors hazard allowance but you just get your salary, that is all because I have spoken to the doctors there. 

Nigeria Health Minister, Dr Osagie Ehanire
VON “They say it is part of your job and that is what you are trained for. They don’t pay you anything but here apart from your salary we try to add something to it with the hope that you will stay. We also appeal to state governments to prioritize the employment of doctors some of whom have not been employed.” The minister said he was also informed that doctors were migrating from the UK, hence it was not only a Nigerian challenge. He added, “Even in the UK, they are losing doctors to other countries so they think there is a movement but I think we have to look at our own situation the best way we can. “With regards to the 58 doctors, we were all surprised to hear that they were at the airport and it was irregular in that many of them did not have visas. I don’t know what evidence you have whether they have left the country but no one should leave the country without a visa. “Those who were trained through scholarship or whose training was subsidized and have jobs here actually have a moral responsibility to give back because even now we have large numbers of Nigerian doctors in the UK, the US and Europe who apply to come here every year and serve even though they weren’t trained here or at the state’s expense. “It is just a moral obligation. They are called the Diaspora Health Professionals Initiative. Some spend their own money, come with their own equipment even though they owe the country nothing.” 