Less than 24hours after Arewa Agenda published a story on how Arewa (Northern) women are using the opportunity of the COVID-19 lockdown to keep their marital romance alive, especially during the Ramadan and Sallah, reactions have continued to trail the clip with some quarters alleging that the video created disunity among families, leading to divorce. Investigations by Arewa Agenda however reveals that the couples who allegedly divorced as a result of the footage had nothing to do with the trending video published by our platform. Most families who featured in the video published by Arewa Agenda expressed shock at the account that the video had broken their homes, reiterating that their family are still united in love and the bonds is getting stronger than ever before. SALLAH VIDEO: How #Arewa Women Pampered Their Husbands Under #COVID19 Lockdown WATCH FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/ZMRY7FRJIRKnown for their beauty as well as their incredible wears, Arewa (Northern) women may have busted that myth as they took the opportunity of... #Arewatwitter pic.twitter.com/dVySw0yRiL  Rumours about the alleged divorced have filtered in days ago when the video surfaced after a Social Media user, Sanusi Bature posted that a husband divorced his wife as a result of a video clip. When contacted to authenticate if the story he posted on Social Media had something to do with the trending video, Sanusi Bature, a political communicator in Kano said the lady he was referring to had nothing to do with the footage as she was not even in the viral video. “The divorced woman I was talking about in my social media post had nothing to do with the trending video,” he confirmed. Bature stressed that the video in contention didn’t go viral but was shared within family circles and the husband only grouse was that he wasn’t aware his wife was recording the show. Arewa Agenda learnt that the divorced wife being referred to have since moved to her divorced husband mother’s (Mother In-law’s) place in Minna, Niger State where efforts are being made at reconciling the couples. Meanwhile, ArewaAgenda has received more video clips of Arewa Men showering their wives with love and affection during the Sallah period which coincided with COVID-19 Lockdown in most states, especially in the North. The clips are featured in Part 2 of our Video on YouTube titled: “Arewa Men Celebrate Wives under Covid-19 Lockdown” In the video, couples were seen sharing joyous moments together as they took steps to relish the moment. Some of the families even have their kids joining them in the good family moment time.   Positive reactions have continued to trail our story with a Youtube commentator, Meek Dav stating that, “This is very Romantic! You don’t need to wait till valentine’s day to spice your marriage with love and tender care. I really hope to see more of this. Thumbs up for all the couples in this video!!” Another commentator, Halid Sherif, said, “They are still culturally most compliant among Nigerians. They know the value of marriage and family.” Recall that Arewa Agenda had reported that the COVID-19 lockdown has given Arewa Women a rare opportunity to reconnect with their husbands, by pampering them with love and exploring ways to keep their marital romance alive. Known for their beauty as well as their incredible wears, arewa women who are often perceived as conservatives and reserved, may have busted that myth as they took the opportunity of the confinement occasioned by the novel Coronavirus pandemic to lighten the sparkles around their love lives with their spouses. While the coronavirus may have affected trade, jobs and other human endeavor, for some arewa women, love is indeed in the air. Fatima and Mukhtar’s Wedding!
Bella Naija Weddings ArewaAgenda is a publication of young writers from Northern Nigeria.