The ECOWAS Commission has refuted a report that it, along with its health institution, West Africa Health Organisation, had ordered COVID Organics (CVO) medicines, a herbal remedy produced by Madagascar said to cure Coronavirus. The Directorate of Communications, ECOWAS Commission, debunked the report in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. According to the statement, the ECOWAS Commission and WAHO reiterate their commitments to delivering on the decisions made by the ECOWAS Heads of State and Government at their recent Extraordinary Summit on the fight against COVID-19. The statement reads, “We wish to disassociate ECOWAS and its health institution, West Africa Health Organisation, from this claim and inform the general public that we have not ordered the said CVO medication. “We are aware that several claims of COVID-19 cure have been made in different parts of the world, but we can only support and endorse products that are effective through scientific study. 



See Also






Politics
COVID-19: We Are In Talks With Madagascar Over Herbal Cure, Says African Union
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “For this reason, WAHO is collaborating with relevant partners including WHO, African CDC, and national, regional and international research consortia to promote the scientific search for a cure. “We are working with member-states on some of the medications available for clinical trials and use on a compassionate basis in selected severe cases. “Some of the traditional medicine centres of excellence in the ECOWAS region are also currently investigating products of potential efficacy. “One of this is to strengthen cooperation among member-states in research, training and experience sharing in health matters in general and in the fight against COVID-19 in particular.” The statement said WAHO, as part of its mandate to safeguard and improve the health of the region’s population, remained committed to promoting rational traditional medicine practices and products in the ECOWAS region. It said that over the years, WAHO had worked consistently with ECOWAS member-states to scientifically investigate plant medicines of proven efficacy. It noted that the medicines were documented in the ECOWAS Pharmacopoeia of Traditional Medicines, the second edition of, which would be published next two weeks.