As the fight against Coronavirus rages, residents of Ondo State have embraced the use of face masks to protect themselves and family members from contracting the virus. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had earlier called for the compulsory use of face masks by all residents of the state to stem the tide of the outbreak. Our correspondent, who moved round major parts of Akure, the state capital, observed that people had since been complying with the directive. A resident of Oke Aro area, Mrs Bisi Iyiola, told SaharaReporters that the face mask was a good initiative and would help prevent the spread of the virus. She said, "It is good that residents are now wearing the face mask when out in public places mostly where social distancing isn't possible. "It is not about the government enforcing the law and order on the people but it is all about our safety and health too. So, I love it this way and I am happy." Some commercial transport operators were also seen wearing face mask to protect themselves against the virus. Some passengers, who failed to wear face masks were seen not allowed into commercial vehicles by drivers. Attendants at filling stations in the city were also observed to be wearing face masks, hand gloves and also having sanitisers in place. A manager in one of the filling stations in the city, Mr Bayo Adelaide, told our correspondent that the essence was to guide against contracting the virus. At most stores visited, the owners provided soap, water and hand sanitisers for customers to use before being allowed in. Oluwatodimu Ayiloge, a trader engaged in the sale of face masks around First Bank roundabout in Akure, said she was making good profits from the venture. She said, "I've made N2000 from sales but people want the designer ones and that's quality enough too.” A medical doctor, Mr Andrew Ibiyemi, said wearing of face masks was a welcome development that would help reduce the spread of the virus. He said government should compel all business owners to make it mandatory for employees to wear face masks while working.