After weeks of denial, the Yobe State Government has finally admitted that indeed 471 persons died in less than three weeks in the state. In a series of reports, SaharaReporters had exposed how dozens of persons especially elderly people had been dropping dead in Yobe after exhibiting symptoms related to Coronavirus, thereby causing panic in many parts of the state. The situation became so serious that residents confirmed that spaces were running out at most cemeteries in the state. 

Yobe Governor Mai Mala Buni Denying the revelation by SaharaReporters, Commissioner for Home Affairs, Information and Culture in Yobe State, Abdullahi Bego, had said, “SaharaReporters’ latest lie that people in their hundreds were dying and being buried in Gashu’a and Potiskum as the COVID-19 pandemic escalates therefore segues with what we know about the medium. It is a way to grab attention, even though they can never vouch for their sources. “If SR knows what Gashu’a and Potiskum are as communities, they would not even have made the attempt to write what they wrote.” 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: 155 Persons Die In Yobe State Within Six Days Over Suspected Coronavirus Symptoms, State Governor Coordinates Affairs From Abuja
0 Comments
1 Week Ago But despite the denial of the state, the President of the Nigerian Senate, Ahmad Lawan, expressed concern over the mass deaths and asked the state government to carry out a thorough investigation into the matter. Upon heeding that advice and carrying out a thorough investigation, the Yobe State Government has now swallowed its earlier words by admitting that the mass deaths were true and not caused by heat wave as it claimed initially. Confirming the situation on Tuesday, Commissioner for Health in the state, Dr Muhammad Lawan Gana, who is also the Vice Chairman of the state committee on COVID-19, said those that died were mostly elderly people. He added that the total of 471 was put together between the last week of April and the second week of May.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: More People Die In Yobe State After Showing Coronavirus Symptoms, Family, Friends Of Infected Lawmaker In Panic
0 Comments
6 Days Ago According to Gana, more than 57 per cent were aged between 50 years and above, while 58.5 per cent were male, adding that that the trend showed an increase in mortality. He said the casualties were recorded in Potiskum, Nguru, Gashu’a and Damaturu, the state capital. Gana stated that, “57 per cent of the total deaths had an underlying chronic illness, which include fever, hypertension, diabetes, renal disease, maternal mortality and accident victims. “Sixteen of the 471 deceased relatives revealed someone with similar symptoms, and all were investigated and referred to a facility, while three out of the 16 met case definition of COVID-19.” 