The Ikotun Division of the Lagos State Police Command has been accused of covering up a murder case and protecting an alleged killer in Lagos. One Ogunbusola Temitayo on Sunday allegedly stabbed one of his co-tenants at 4, Sebili Kazeem Street, Ikotun, Lagos, Osho Oladotun Johnson, and injured two others. Occupants of the house said Temitayo, 30, was dragged to the Ikotun Police Station in the morning after causing chaos in the house but was released after signing an undertaking to stay calm and peaceful. However, on returning to the house, Temitayo allegedly took a knife and chased some tenants, threatening to stab them. He got hold of Johnson and allegedly stabbed him at the chest, preventing the occupants from taking the late Johnson to the hospital in time. Johnson did not survive the attack as he was pronounced dead-on-arrival when he was eventually rushed to the hospital. One eyewitness, who spoke with SaharaReporters, said Temitayo stabbed Johnson and ensured nobody came close to rescue him. He said, “On that day before he murdered our friend, he was brought to the police station by a soldier when he caused chaos in the compound and was made to sign an undertaking and released. “When he got home, he threatened all the tenants because he was reported to the landlord. The landlord told him to calculate his remaining balance on rent so it can be refunded and leave his house. “He was enraged and went to take a knife, chased a guy in the compound who luckily escaped with minor injuries and when he returned, he targeted Osho and stabbed him on his chest. “The youth in the neighbourhood came together to resist him, attacked him before taking him to the police station.” The bereaved family and tenants are claiming that the police are attempting to sweep the case under the carpet as the alleged murderer is from a wealthy family. They also said that the murderer had been reported to the Ikotun Police Division twice but was freed due to the influence of his parents. “When we got to the station, we found out that the guy (Temitayo) had killed someone before and it was reported at the Ikotun police station. “Also, three months ago, it was reported that he stabbed a pastor and the case was reported at the same Ikotun police station. “He was freed and allowed to go home simply because he is from a wealthy background,” one of the relatives said. The family are urging the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to intervene. They accused the DPO of Ikotun Division of being compromised. “Osho's dad on Monday tried to transfer the case to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba so we could get justice but the police rejected the case. “They asked the father to treat the murderer before the case can be accepted. “The Ikotun Police Station is playing foul because his parents are wealthy and influential,” Mr Osho said. “As it stands, we need justice to prevail on this matter.” When contacted, the Lagos State Police spokesperson, Bala Elkana, said the case had officially been reported and the suspect would be taken to court. “The case has officially been reported and it is at the CID now. “The suspect is at Ikotun Division now because he was attacked and he can’t appear in court like that. He needs to be treated and would be under police protection. Once he recovers, he would face the law,” DSP Elkana said.