A recently sacked member of the Kwara State House of Assembly, Abdulazeez Hassan Oluwanilo, has physically assaulted an Islamic cleric, Mukadam Awal Sakamo, for rejecting money he gave to his children as gift for Sallah. Oluwanilo with the support of his wife assaulted the Islamic cleric and beat him to stupor for returning the gift. Sakamo is currently at a hospital receiving treatment for the beating he suffered at the hands of the sacked lawmaker and his wife. 

The Islamic cleric that was attacked It was gathered that the constituents of Ilorin South had unanimously agreed to reject any kind gesture offered to them by Oluwanilo, who was said to have been showing offensive attitude towards his people. However, when the Islamic cleric acted in line with the decision and returned the cash gift to the sacked lawmaker, he was physically assaulted. An Appeal Court had sacked Oluwanilo and ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission to issue a Certificate of Return to Abdulraheem Agboola of the Peoples Democratic Party. The ruling of the apex court made Agboola the only PDP lawmaker in the state's Assembly. 



See Also






Politics
Kwara Assembly Ignores Court's Directive, Continues To Recognise Sacked APC Lawmaker As Member
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago However, since the ruling of the court, the Assembly had not only refused to recognise Agboola as the elected lawmaker from Ilorin South but also continued to pay Oluwanilo all salaries and allowances. Explaining what led to the assault of the Islamic cleric by Oluwanilo, a resident of the community said, “Hon. Nilo has been generally rejected by the entire residents of Alagbado community for being irresponsible and always showing offensive attitude of superiority to the people who elected him into office. “Nilo together with the help of his wives beat up Sakamo because he decided to comply with the decision of the people of Alagbado community to reject anything that came from Oluwanilo. “He returned the traditional Sallah money given to his children by the ex-member of the Kwara State House of Assembly. “The injured Mallam has been rushed to the hospital and has been battling to stay alive.” When contacted, Public Relations Officer of the Kwara State Police Command, DSP Okasanmi Ajayi, said they were not aware of the matter, adding that the case had not been reported to them. Oluwanilo declined to speak when contacted by SaharaReporters. He is yet to also respond to a text message sent to his mobile line on the matter as at the time of filing this report. 