The Nigerian Government has been urged to as a matter of urgency relocate the Mega Dry Dock specifically designed for the Niger Delta region from Lagos where it had been unused to the South-South region. Rising from a virtual meeting to x-ray Niger Delta's economy after the lockdown and commemorate the 93rd birthday anniversary of Pan Niger Delta Forum leader, Chief Edwin Clark. In a statement on the webinar meeting of the groups in Lagos, United Niger Delta Energy Development Security Strategy Executive Secretary and General Secretary of PANDEF, Mr Tony Uranta, said the benefits of the dock to the region would be immeasurable considering the Maritime University in Delta State. The statement reads, "Relocating the Dry Dock project to the Niger Delta would be the biggest investment post COVID--19 in the region and would open up the economy of the region. "The location of the Dry dock to Badagry in Lagos State is contrary to the initial approval by the Federal Government for its location in Delta. "Our appeal is that the dry dock should be moved permanently, installed and commissioned in Delta State considering the contributions of the region to the nation's economy. "The dry dock is lying fallow in the waters of Lagos and should be taken to Delta next to the maritime university to provide practical knowledge to the students. "The dry dock, if located in the Niger Delta, will open up the region and make it more viable, including the employment it will generate and the trainings on ship building processes.” Recalled that the dock since its arrival in the country on June 11, 2018, had been in a storage cart, owing to controversial bureaucratic wrangling over where it would be located as operational base. The House of Representatives in March 2020 urged the Federal Government and Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency to return and install the floating dock acquired at a cost of over N50bn in Okerenkoko, Delta. According to Uranta, the meeting had set up a committee to be chaired by Prof Pat Utomi to look at its institutions, state leaderships and contributions of its elected members in the National Assembly to development of the region. He said, "We are going to begin to study more rigorously, the daily records of how many bills promoted by the region's representatives at the NASS. "Our focus will also be on state governments and its ministries in the region to ascertain utilisation of statutory funds to cut down corruption.” Speaking further, Uranta appealed for more palliatives to the people of Niger Delta to assist people whose lands were no longer viable for farming due to excavation and exploration activities by multi-nationals.