The National Judicial Council has released guidelines for court sittings and related matters during the COVID-19 period. The council directed that every person wishing to go into the court premises, without exception, shall be subjected to the temperature monitor reading, adding that the guidelines shall apply to all courts in the federation notably the federal and states judiciaries. It stated that physical sittings by courts in courtrooms should be avoided as much as possible during this COVID-19 period and if at all such physical court sittings must be, safety measures must be taken. It was also advised that the heads of courts shall liaise with relevant security agencies to ensure that the entrances to court premises are well manned by security personnel and entry into the premises are regulated in a manner that guarantees and enforces the minimum two-meter (six feet) distance between persons as it relates to all entrants into the premises. The guideline reads partly, “The security personnel at the entrance of the court premises shall be equipped with temperature monitors for testing and determining the temperature of each visitor to the court premises. “They should be trained in the use of the temperature monitors and the visitors must be shown their temperature readings on the monitors before their admission into the court premises. “Only persons with face masks are allowed entry into the court premises without exception. Judicial officers and counsel must be exemplary in that regard and must ensure that their support personnel comply strictly with this requirement. “At no time and in no circumstance should anyone while within the court premises, including inside courtrooms, offices and the chambers of judicial officers, not wear face mask.  Anyone who refuses, neglects or is unwilling to wear face mask at any time while in the court premises should be politely advised to leave and be escorted outside the premises by security personnel. “Visitors to the court premises must maintain social and physical distances (not less than 2 meters or 6 feet apart from each other)and must avoid congregations or assembly of more than 10 persons within the court premises (not including the courtrooms). “The NJC also directed during filing of court processes where there is no electronic filing system and pending the institution of such electronic filing systems, hard copy/paper-based manual filings at the court registries shall continue to be the default filing process for litigants. “Virtual court sittings (alternately referred to as “remote court sittings” or “online court sittings”) should be encouraged and promoted by the courts and counsel; the courts should insist on such remote hearings for matters that do not require taking any evidence. “All judgments, ruling and directions may be delivered and handed down by the courts in and through remote court sittings. “Save for extremely urgent and time bound matters, contentious matters that require the calling of evidence in a physical courtroom setting should not be called up by the courts at this time.”