The Association of Resident Doctors at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu, Ogun State, has said its members will commence a three-day warning strike action starting from Monday. In a letter signed by the President and General Secretary of the association, Popoola Mutiu, and Osundara Tope, the doctors said the strike became necessary following the refusal of the state government to yield to their demands on welfare. The planned action comes as the state makes efforts at containing the COVID-19 outbreak. 

Doctors on duty
Google It reads, “We have a human face and we know people are the basis of our practice as medical professionals. “We shall, therefore, exclude our members working at COVID-19 isolation centre from joining the strike action. They shall not take part of the strike. “Following the three-day warning strike, we shall review the government’s response and appropriate action shall be taken thereafter. “The whole house is very much displeased with the government on issues that bother on our agitations and welfare. “We are perturbed with the non-committal response from the government despite repeated calls and letters to get their attention. “There has been no commitment whatsoever from the government on the issue of appropriate remuneration, entry level, new minimum wage, hazard allowance and life insurance for our members. “No response to the letter written by the national body of the Association of Resident Doctors notifying Ogun State Government on the aberration concerning the appropriate remuneration to her members at OOUTH. “Despite the inadequate response of Ogun State Government to the health risks confronted by our members during this COVID-19 pandemic, our members went ahead to continue their work diligently in their various departments and at the isolation centre. “We were taken aback by the arbitrary change in only hazard allowance to be given as COVID-19 special hazard allowance to all health workers. The 200 per cent increase in hazard allowance is just an increase from N5000 to N15,000 for just the month of April.”