Youths in Lagos have demanded that the Nigeria Police Force adequately compensate the family of Ezekwe Tina, a teenage girl killed by policemen in Lagos. Oworo Youth Forum are also demanding that the officers involved in the killing, ASP Theophilus Otobo and Inspector Oguntoba Olamigoke attached to Bariga Police Station, must be made to face the full wrath of the law. It was gathered that the policemen, who were trying to enforce curfew at the end of the Third Mainland Bridge, shot at the driver of a commercial bus. Tina was hit by a bullet and was rushed to the hospital but didn’t survive. The youth described Tina’s death as “one too many”, adding that the police have been responsible for the deaths of innocent citizens and illegal extortions of young Nigerians. “We at Oworo Youth Forum are not only calling for the perpetrators to be arrested, paraded and prosecuted publicly but also demanding that the family of Tina must be adequately compensated for their loss. “We want to make it categorically clear that this will not be one of those cases that will be swept under the carpet under the disguise of orderly room trial and prosecution.“We will engage and resist with everything we have within the ambit of the law to make sure justice is not beheaded,” the youth said. They are calling on civil society groups, activists and well-meaning and progressive Nigerians to join in the demand for justice and an end to police brutality and impunity. Meanwhile, the police have said the two officers involved in the act have been arrested and undergoing internal disciplinary proceedings. “The police is in contact with the family of the victim from the day of the incident. The Command deeply sympathise with the family and friends of the deceased person. The Commissioner of Police calls for calm and assures the family that the perpetrators of this dastardly act will face the full weight of the law," Bala Elkana, Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, said.  Men of the Nigerian police force has just gunned down a young girl and a driver at berger iyana oworo! pic.twitter.com/gVjXfe6g1h 