Some personnel of the Nigerian Army have laid curses on the country’s Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, after falling into a Boko Haram trap in the North-East where the war against terrorism is at its fiercest. In a video exclusively obtained by SaharaReporters, some soldiers while lamenting their near-death experiences and the loss of their military vehicles and weapons during the ambush by Boko Haram terrorists, accused the Nigerian Army leadership of abandoning them to die in the bush and only sending in jets when the insurgents had dealt them heavy blows. Angered by the situation, the soldiers seen in the video rained curses on Buratai, praying for all manner of evil to befall him. UNDATED VIDEO: Soldiers fighting Boko Haram terrorists cursing out Chief of Army Staff, Buratai as MRAP burns in the background @HQNigerianArmy WATCH FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/Xc7KvRQPVT pic.twitter.com/qANpYGSk6c  In disjointed Pidgin English that has been correctly translated by SaharaReporters for the benefit of readers not conversant with such language, the angry soldiers said, “It shall not be well with the army (authorities), army has sold all of us. Look at the way the army (authorities) are suffering us, it shall not be well with them. “Boko Haram ambushed us, what type of nonsense is this. Army (authorities) have suffered us. They sent jets to us after Boko Haram had finished us. “Buratai, it shall not be well with you for life. Buratai, you shall not know peace anymore.”  

Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai Embarrassed by the incident, the Nigerian Army authorities claimed that they had arrested the soldiers in the video and are currently evaluating their psychological state at the moment. Although this kind of outburst is expected in war, the soldiers involved have been identified and would undergo observation and counselling.The Armed Forces of Nigeria will remain unwavering in its quest to end the terrorism and will do everything possible to ensure there  Curiously, it is not the first time that the army authorities would be venting their anger on personnel exposing operational flaws in the campaign against Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East – the latest adds to a long line on this list. For example, on March 31, 2020, the Nigerian Army removed General Olusegun Adeniyi, who appeared in a viral video urging military authorities to supply them with weapons and accurate intelligence to combat Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East region. Adeniyi, who is Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, in the viral video lamented how his men were outgunned and ambushed while on an operation in Borno. Shortly after the video went out to the public, Adeniyi was removed from his position to a less significant post as punishment. FLASH: @HQNigerianArmy Removes General Adeniyi Who Disclosed Weakness of The Military Against Boko Haram In Leaked Video pic.twitter.com/7B2JZC5fwC  To further give ‘life’ to the war against terrorism in the region according to the military, on April 11, 2020, Buratai "relocated fully" to the North-East to oversee the fight against Boko Haram and other insurgent groups in the area. The move followed a widely publicised and praised offensive against the terrorists on the banks of Lake Chad led by Chadian President, Idriss Deby. But despite Buratai’s presence in the volatile zone, the Nigerian Army has continued to receive bashing from the insurgents, losing many previously gained grounds to the control of the hoodlums. Recall that after SaharaReporters exclusively obtained the video, the Defence Headquarters released series of posts on Twitter admitting that indeed there was an ambush in Buni Yadi in Yobe and that two soldiers. However, sources disclosed that the number of casualties on the side of the army was far higher than the figure the authorities were peddling. This was further confirmed in a second exclusive video obtained by SaharaReporters showing several terribly wounded soldiers including one whose legs were blown off by IEDs. UNDATED VIDEO: Nigerian Soldiers Ambushed By Boko Haram Terrorists With Bullet Wounds, Blown Up Legs Writhing In Pain @HQNigerianArmy WATCH FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/QMLmJ5UC32 pic.twitter.com/Tap4QTAS6Y  Shortly after SaharaReporters published the videos, trolls on Twitter ostensibly working for the Nigerian Government ran riot online, claiming the videos were of past events and not recent. But after the army authorities confirmed the videos published by SaharaReporters as fresh and authentic, the trolls swiftly changed positions, beginning a #ThankYouBuratai hashtag to praise Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff despite the heavy blow dealt them by Boko Haram terrorists.   