The Christian Association of Nigeria has berated Speaker House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, over the controversial infectious diseases bill, which the group says violates the human rights of Nigerians. In a letter by its National Secretary, Joseph Daramola, on Tuesday, CAN said the motive behind the attempt to speedily pass the bill without due process was suspicious and dangerous. It reads, “The Christian Association of Nigeria and other well-meaning citizens of this country have critically and carefully looked into this Bill and cannot but observe the following. “That it was initiated to destroy the civil and human rights of Nigerians. It prevents Nigerians from having a say in their own affairs through the hasty way by which the House is trying to make it a law. “Among this denial of the fundamental human rights are right to life, personal liberty, freedom from degrading and inhuman treatment, privacy, right to acquire and own property, freedom of movement and freedom of religion, just to mention a few. “These rights are held sacred and invaluable except on clearly defined occasions as provided for by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Remember that the courts in Nigeria on numerous occasions have struck out acts of parliaments and legislation including executive orders of governments, which do violence to any of the fundamental human rights provided for in the constitution. “In view of the above, the Christian Association of Nigeria hereby advises the leadership and honourable members of the House to immediately allow the Spirit of God to prevail over the primordial intentions and ambition, not to pass this controversial, nebulous and obnoxious Bill into law in the overall interest of Nigerians. “In this obnoxious Bill, too much powers have been ceded to the Minister of Health and the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control almost to the exclusion of the judiciary in mediation, where the orders of the Minister of Health and the DG of NCDC appears to violate the fundamental human rights as enshrined in the constitution.”