The police have concluded plans to rearrest Mr Clement Asuquo Etim, who was previously arrested, tortured and framed-up for offences he didn’t commit after he caught Mr Celestine Umeh, a Chief Superintendent of Police currently serving with the Akwa Ibom State Police Command, in bed with his wife in Uyo, the state capital. SaharaReporters had reported how Etim narrated that the senior police officer had been having sexual affair with his wife for a long time and that he had been hoping for a day that he will catch them. He was finally caught at about 7:00pm on April 27, 2020 at their home at Aba Ukpo Estate, which is not too far from where the Akwa Ibom State Police Command in Uyo is located. Celestine Umeh The policeman ran away only to return with some of his colleagues and arrested Etim, his cousin and his home help. They were charged to court after being framed-up for assaulting Umeh but Etim could not appear as he was receiving treatment at the hospital. To illegally detain Etim, the Akwa Ibom Police Command together with the Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, is planning to rearrest him on the ground that he jumped bail. 



See Also






Police
EXPOSED: How Businessman Was Arrested, Tortured, Framed-up After Catching Senior Police Officer In Bed With His Wife
0 Comments
2 Days Ago It was gathered that a letter has been sent to his surety to produce him at the station today. “They want to arrest him. A letter was sent to his surety to produce him this morning. “He didn't jump bail. He was released and he went to the hospital as he was bleeding from his ear. “When the police took the other people to court, the court was informed that he was hospitalised. The Police applied that his name should be dropped from the charge,” a source said. Also, in a new ploy, the police command, which does not want to turn in CSP Umeh, has concluded plans to inform the court that the CSP is having an affair with Etim’s sister-in-law. “The police is desperately trying to cover up. Now they want to charge the man for attempted murder. “They are colluding with the family of his wife. We got reliable information that the Commissioner of Police met with the wife's family. Their plan is to say that the CSP is dating the man's sister-in-law,” the source added. 