Contrary to claims by embattled Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, on the floor of the House accusing SaharaReporters of fake news and alleged that the N17m cleaning services monthly allocation was misreported by the news medium, SaharaReporters is in possession of exclusive documents contravening the claim of the lawmakers. According to the officers, the Speaker met a monthly allocation of N27m for running cost and reduced it to N17m in 2015 as a mark of his prudence. 

Mudashiru Obasa They claimed that the N17m was for payment of special advisers and other aides of the Speaker.  The Speaker of the House Rt.hon @mudashiru_obasa clears the air on an attempt by @SaharaReporters to dent his person and that of @lshaofficial ..Take a listen! pic.twitter.com/kKo0xjCPVO Take a look! pic.twitter.com/4DnglLrlph  The latest document in possession of SaharaReporters revealed that the Lagos Speaker received directly to his personal account the N27m met on assumption of office and only collected the N17m office and house cleaning in addition to the previous allocation, which was diverted to his private account domiciled in Wema Bank, Oba Akran branch in Ikeja, Lagos. Obasa has been running from pillar to post trying to divert attention from his fraudulent activities. Before the latest revelation, SaharaReporters had exposed how Obasa used a number of companies registered under different names to execute contracts and siphon public funds. The online news medium also exposed how he spent N17m monthly to maintain his personal residence and guest house from tax payers’ money. 



See Also







Exclusive
Lagos Speaker, Obasa, Gets N17m Monthly For Maintenance Of Personal Residence, Guest House
0 Comments
1 Week Ago The media organisation also revealed how the Speaker had mobilised thugs with N50m to invade its Civic Media Lab office in Ikeja, Lagos, to burn down the place with anybody found there as a way of getting back at SaharaReporters for exposing his fraudulent activities in the Lagos parliament where he had been feeding fat on public funds. 



See Also






Corruption
Lagos Speaker, Obasa, Gives Thugs N50m To Burn Down SaharaReporters' Civic Media Lab, Targets TVC Journalist, HEDA For Criticizing Him
0 Comments
5 Days Ago