President Muhammadu Buhari and the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit have been asked to investigate Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, over gross financial misconduct, criminal breach of public trust, abuse of office and likelihood of money laundering. The petition was sent to President Buhari and NFIU following the discovery of over N1bn in one account linked to Obasa. The group is asking the President to order a probe of the Lagos Assembly Speaker to curb cross-border corruption.

Lagos speaker, Mudashiru Obasa The petition reads, “Subsequent investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission based on the letter from the National Crime Agency led to discovery of over N1bn in a single account belonging to Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa within the first year of his assumption of office as Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly. “We are writing the petition requesting thorough investigation into corrupt practices involving Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa with a view to stopping further abuse of office, economic and financial pillaging as well as to restore sanity to the legislative arm of the government of Lagos State.” SaharaReporters had in recent weeks revealed series of corrupt activities by Obasa and his allies in the Lagos Assembly. In the latest of the expose, SaharaReporters on Saturday revealed how 64 bank accounts are linked to the Bank Verification Number of Obasa. The online news medium had previously exposed how Obasa awarded contracts to himself using different companies owned by him and how he got the Assembly to approve N258m for printing of invitation cards for the inauguration of lawmakers two months after the event held. Already, several groups have called on anti-graft agencies in Nigeria to investigate Obasa for corruption but so far there has not been any word from the organisations.



See Also






Corruption
EFCC Yet To Prosecute Lagos Assembly Speaker, Obasa, Since 2018 Despite Corruption Evidence Against Him
0 Comments
1 Week Ago 