No government or business can function optimally without organising capacity. Every structure that delivers efficiency comes with it a high level organizing capacity. Government will consistently fail as long as its citizens are propelled to live and organize in their own reality while the leaders have their own structure created and funded by the government. Such mishap and deliberate economic injustice can never keep any nation in unity. Unity is instigated by justice and fairness and this underscores the people's commitment and resolve to die for their country, raising the flag of motherland in the midst of affliction. As a result of this reality, many people have mentally cessaded from this country, their bodies are here but they are not interested in the system anymore. You cannot call them unpatriotic because they once believed in the country who took them midway into the ocean of life and threw them out of the ship to be killed by the dangerous creatures that have taken occupancy of the oceans of this world. You cannot call them unpatriotic! We have seen capitalism, feudalism, communism, totalitarianism and democracy. We have practiced a few of the above, but none in the Nigerian context have placed the citizens in equal economic and social reality with her leaders. The failing organizing capacity of this government is responsible for the agitations across the country from ASUU, NLC, MASSOB to the likes of others. For when a country fails to plan for her citizens for close to 60 years of her existence it points to just one fact that her leaders both past and present are irresponsible. You cannot deflate this argument with any kind of economic postulation. The future of the Nigerian child is completely not a priority of any of these administrations in this country. This is the bigger danger, that while we have been wasted and messed up by our leaders, we are watching the same treatment being melted out to the future of our children gleefully. This has to stop! The difference in socio-economic realities between the leaders and the led in this country has created a huge social injury between these classes and the struggle can only lead to an unpleasant war someday for this prediction is inevitable in every unjust scheme that represses the led and their capacity to live a good life. When the day of reckoning comes you cannot call them unpatriotic because you will remember this day, that a leader of legal cum political thought once wrote about the impending war against the policy makers and government who turned down every suggestion made and christened them as unsolicited and mean-spirited, orchestrated of devious opposition and hate. If you survive it you will emerge from the ruins of your desolate possessions in deep regrets. I will not be consumed by that insurrection if karma is ever faithful. You will, because you are part of that bloc that took our commonwealth away and created a different reality for us where nothing works. But that's because you thought our docility will always leave us aback in complacency with long lamentations. You were right except that society is dynamic and could take any turn at any time. I am not calling on you to change. You have established the conversation already and this will come with the citizen's corresponding reactions. Be of good cheer, put your house together no man knows when the wind will blow. It's a natural cause that must happen and when this happens remember that line. "You cannot call them unpatriotic!" Evans Ufeli Esq is a legal practitioner and Executive Director of Cadrell Advocacy Centre 