Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, aka Sanwo-Tinubu, is one of the agents of aged despot being used to stamp out domestic dissent. Sanwo-Olu in cahoot with General Muhammadu Buhari and Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his political godfather, violated constitutional safeguards and disregard the rights of #EndSARS protesters at Lekki Toll Gate by using soldiers to fire live ammunition on defenseless peaceful protesters. Sanwo-Olu, Tinubu had vigorously denied knowledge and involvement in the killings of the protesters. So also Buhari who in his hollow address to the nation deliberately tap-danced around the murder of protesters at Lekki Toll Gate. SaharaReporters revealed Saturday that Sanwo-Olu was aware of plans by soldiers from Bonny Camp to attack and kill Lekki protesters. “Though Governor Sanwo-Olu blamed ‘forces beyond our control’ for the attack... available facts at the disposal of this medium indicate that the governor is being economical with the truth,” reports SaharaReporters. Today, SharaReporters also posted a video that incriminates Buhari and Sanwo-Olu. Buhari, Tinubu, and Sanwo-Olu have blood in their hands. First, Sanwo-Olu flew to Abuja and met with General Muhammadu Buhari the Commander-in-Chief of Armed Forces on how to end #EndSARS protest in Lagos. Second, Tinubu publicly said force should be used against the protesters. Third, Lekki Toll Gate is one of the reliable and profitable cash cows of many investments of Tinubu. Fourth, Sanwo-Olu is Tinubu’s stooge who will not go against the orders of Tinubu hence it will mean the end of his political career. And lastly but most importantly, the military would not have carried out the shootings without the approval of Buhari as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Bayo Oluwasanmi Once the massacre of the protesters was achieved, Buhari, Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu looked for ways to wash their blood stained hands from the murder of protesters. Buhari and his Fulani cabals invoked the old, tired “divide and rule” tactics by placing the murder on the laps of Igbos. They readily found a scape goat in Nnamdi Kanu, leader of IPOB. As usual, they concocted a lie that it was Kanu who ordered Igbo to kill protesters and destroy properties. How can Kanu who fled Nigeria to escape being killed by blood thirsty tyrant Buhari side with Buhari to kill the protesters? Was Kanu responsible for the the thugs who came in Lagos State government van armed with cutlasses and cudgels and attacked the protesters? Was Kanu behind similar attacks by Buhari’s government sponsored thugs against protesters in other parts of the country? Balderdash! Since independence 60 years ago, the only weapon used by the primitive northerners to perpetuate their hegemony and monopoly of power is “divide and conquer” by pitting Yorubas against Igbos and vice versa. They used it for Awolowo and Azikwe. They lied that Wole Soyinka said Igbos should leave Yoruba land. No matter how hard they tried, they have failed abysmally this time around. Let me remind the Fulanis that the Awo and Zik generation is long gone. Welcome to #EndSARS generation! “Divide and rule” tactics cannot and will not deter #EndSARS generation. The #EndSARS generation is united and collectively resolved to fight the unchecked brutalities of Buhari’s authoritarian regime, the obnoxious system, and the ethical decay of democratic powers. Buhari, Tinubu, and Sanwo-Olu killed #EndSARS protesters at Lekki Toll Gate. Period. Times have changed. The revolution is now. There’s no letting up. No going back. This is it!