Nigerians are calling for nationwide protests after the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, stopped officers attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad and other tactical squads from routine patrol as well as stop-and-search. The ban follows public outcry over extra-judicial killings of young people in the country by officers, who label them as criminals without following due process.  Some Nigerians on Twitter, however, insisted that the ban was a ruse by the Nigeria Police Force to quell public outrage, which escalated on Sunday. Folarin Falana, popular musician and son of rights lawyer, Femi Falana, declared in a series of tweets that he was ready to protest in the streets until the killings end.  Makes me sick to my stomach that till now, we are still waiting for a single word from our so called “president” on this SARS menace.   By farrrrr the MOST insensitive government ever in our history. Unbelievable. Just always so absent.   Ready to enter streets. Been ready since. We have to move in numbers. They cannot kill everybody.   Why we dey fear to protest? They may kill us? Are they not killing us already?? I’m every way possible!!!  Fellow musician Runtown called on Nigerians to converge at the Lekki Toll Gate on Thursday, October 8 to protest police brutality.  This has gone long enough and now we MUST take action! I'll be leading a protest to #ENDSARS on Thursday, October 8th 2020.They MUST listen to us, they MUST make/effect REAL and VISIBLE changes! Empty promises won't work this time!!!   10AM  Wizkid asked Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to intervene in the matter.  Mr Governor! I met with you December 2019! You expressed how proud you are of the entertainment industry and all we do. Pls do something let’s be proud of you too abeg ! #Endsars!! https://t.co/PZoxsSIx5D  Rights activist and pro-democracy campaigner, Omoyele Sowore, asked Nigerians to converge at the police headquarters in Lagos and Abuja for protests until the government heeded the cry of the people.  Locations: @PoliceNG state headquarters in Lagos. Lagos has the most brutal longest-running killer #SARS in Nigeria@PoliceNG Force Headquarters in Abuja and all State Police Hqs will by fully #Occupy until SARS is disbanded and totally dismantled! #RevolutionNow @AmnestyNigeria 