"Freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor, it must be demanded by the oppressed" - Martin Luther King Jr. Nigerians seeks a new and better Nigeria. If we unite as one nation, one people then this dream for a new Nigeria isn't impossible as being seen from the #EndSars protest. Nigeria must be rescued from the diabolic claws of stone cold tyrants, self serving thieves and sadists scums whom are causing hardship and unemployment in the land just to break citizens and bring us on our kneels. But it's up to us to prove to them that we are strong and resolute and that we are Nigerians and our voice can't be silenced. Now, that the government has buckled under pressure and disbanded SARS due to the uprising against the draconian measures that gives birth to rogue cell of the police called SARS. The entire system needs to be overhauled and address the many dysfunctional and crazy elements that puts the lives of our citizens in jeopardy. Richard Odusanya The need to demand for a responsive leadership across board and good governance. We need a total reform of the country. SARS is such a small unit but it was commendable effort from our citizens that they are ready for the great change. We need a big revolution. Africa needs a revolution and let it start from Nigeria. Let the people rise against this bad governance and distasteful policies. The message is clear enough to the government of the day, that citizens right to protest is non-negotiable and the issues of citizens engagement through dialogue must be encouraged. There's need to requote the 2014 Manifesto of Nigeria's ruling party (APC): "In the past, political manifestos in Nigeria were hardly different from mere platitudes and general statements to which parties could not be held accountable. The APC Manifesto is different. We have clearly stated what we will deliver to Nigeria when elected into office . Our focus is on six priority areas: National Security , Good Governance, Human Capital Development.” Under the leadership of Major General Muhammadu Buhari, issues of ethnic cleansing, killings, kidnapping and police brutality is rampant. The Nigeria police, other military and paramilitary forces should henceforth be reform in a manner consistent with its rules of engagement and standard practice guidelines as envisaged by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and practiced in civilized society. The present administration under Major General Muhammad Buhari must be constantly reminded of the inalienable rights reserved for citizens to peacefully protest against poor leadership as enshrined in the constitution isn't negotiable. Our youths are fed up with a system that has first and foremost failed to do its duty to protect them. The Nigeria system has killed more dreams. The government wants the Nigerian youth to remain hopeless! Our current demographic indices shows that the country now belongs to our youths. The strength of any nation is in its youth. The fact is that a new generation is coming. This new generation is faced with diverse challenges. You can call it a paradigm shift. I hope we are prepared for the next phase in our nations history? Leaders must be prepared to listen to them and encourage citizens engagement through dialogue.....this will restore public confidence in the establishments. The momentum needs to be sustained by our youths across the globe, because of many other disturbing issues. It is imperative that we clearly demand for responsive leadership across board, not leadership by intimidation as it is practiced in constitutional democracy. Despite the so called pronouncements, the fifth time on the subject of #ENDSARS. The problem of brutality has not abetted. Police on same day went on rampage brutalized unarmed civilians and journalists in the course of peaceful protest and duty call and still doing so. Within the last few months Amnesty international has documented 82 cases of extrajudiciary assassinations of unarmed civilians apart from the issues of ethnic cleansing among others. Let this disbandment of SARS be properly gazetted by government to assure the citizens that this is not the usual lip service. Also, how will the disbanded SARS operatives be reformed and accommodated in the police force? #EndSARS isn't anywhere near where the promised land. But if #EndSARS protest hasn't done anything, it has done one successfully: reawakening the consciousness of typical Nigeria youths that in their unity and numbers, CHANGE can happen. EndSARS is a catalyst for the Revolution Of Values. Henceforth, #ENDSARS be upgraded to #ENDSARS #ENDIMPUNITY ##ENDBADGOVERNANCE Conclusively, we salute the unbreakable spirit, boldness and resilience of our compatriots across the globe including the victims of oppression and brutality from the impunity of the security services. Odusanya is the Convener, Africa Covenant Rescue Initiative ACRI