Pandemonium erupted on Friday at Animashaun Road, Dalemo area of Lagos, as two groups of hoodlums clashed in a battle for supremacy. An eyewitness, who is a resident of the community, narrated the incident to SaharaReporters.  The chaos started in the morning when some miscreants barricaded a section of the road that linked Akera, Ogun State, extorting money from the motorists. This, however, escalated when news reached another rival gang in the evening, believed to be a cult. There were reports that shootings had earlier been heard in the morning to scare people away. The arrival of the opposing gang at the spot of the operation prompted an uproar. The hoodlums started shooting sporadically in the air, which forced passers-by and other people around the area to flee. A witness said he spent hours hiding in a nearby kiosk, while the hoodlums had a free for all, using cutlasses and other dangerous weapons that left many injured. It took the intervention of the police that approached in their patrol vans with sirens blaring in the air before they ran. An eyewitness told SaharaReporters that the hoodlums started unleashing terror on the community, capitalising on the quietness of the area. Recall that the curfew imposed by the Lagos government forced many people to remain indoors due to the vandalisation, looting and killings that rocked the country's economic nerve centre. "Someone was macheted on a bike in the morning," the source said. "I witnessed the violence. It happened when the bike man didn't give them the money they asked for. I had to run and hide in a shop behind the MAO filling station." "I just managed to escape," another eyewitness told SaharaReporters. "I was stuck outside. It was the arrival of the police that scared them away. They were extorting money from people until the information reached another gang, and that led to a clash." The number of people injured could not be ascertained as of the time of filing this report. It was not certain also if anyone was killed, but the incident had created fear in the community as residents said the armed men could return.