Ekiti State Government has imposed a 24-hour curfew across the state following the violence that has greeted the EndSARS protests. In a statement on Tuesday, the state government said the peaceful protest started by the youth had been hijacked by political thugs. Governor Kayode Fayemi said his government decided to to imposed the curfew in order to halt further breakdown of law and order in the state. Governor Fayemi The statement reads, "The Government of Ekiti State has observed with growing concern how the #ENDSARS protest, which started as a peaceful protest against police brutality by youths in Ekiti State, has been hijacked by some hoodlums. "The hoodlums have capitalised on the #ENDSARS protest to rape, assault, rob and extort innocent citizens across the state. These are in addition to the wanton destruction of properties, particularly private properties. "Government is concerned that if this state of affairs is allowed to continue unabated, it will lead to a breakdown of law and order thereby threatening the wellbeing of the people of Ekiti State. "For the purpose of clarity government continues to show understanding and responsiveness to the demands of the legitimate protesters. "Government had also at various times drawn the attention of the protesters to the troubling hijack of the protests by individuals whose only interest is to inflict violence on the people of the state. "In the past 48 hours there have been incidents of gang-rape, robberies, physical assaults on innocent people, looting and burning of a police station. "These acts of brigandage are not in consonance with the legitimate aspirations of the protesters. It cannot be logical to seek to remedy impunity with impunity. "Government therefore cannot afford to watch a deliberate enthronement of anarchy by some bad elements who have hijacked the protest for some clandestine reasons. "Consequently, the governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi @kfayemi, hereby imposes a 24-hour curfew on all parts of the state starting from 10:00pm, October 20, 2020. "Only essential workers and service providers with valid means of identifications are allowed to move around during the period of the curfew. "Any person found on the street that does not belong to this category, would be promptly arrested and prosecuted according to the laws of Ekiti State. "We seek the understanding of the good people of Ekiti State as we continue to take deliberate steps towards ensuring that peace and normalcy return to our state."