It looked like a child’s play in the eyes of the vagabonds in power. The proclamation roared over and triggered the atmosphere by Nigerians, that the freedom we all waited to witness had arrived. Unfortunately democracy does not exist in Nigeria after 60 years of independence. A failed country with unfortunate political office holders; the blood of all the innocent people shall hunt all of them as they ordered for the removal of CCTV cameras at the toll gate and switched off the lights. Nigeria is a contraption, a country where our constitutional rights have been violated and deprived us of justice. A country where people who swore oaths to defend and protect its citizens are the same people that gave orders to kill Nigerians. Buhari Olanrewaju Ahmed A King who ushered in peace will never be forgotten and the one who brought in turmoil and desolation like General Muhammadu Buhari is doing presently by giving an order to gun down unarmed protesters, will also be remembered. General Muhammadu Buhari’s silence on the matter in his toxic national broadcast proved he is complicit. Human lives matter nothing to him especially because he is confident that his children are in a safe place where no harm can touch them, that is why he was not bothered to address Nigerians in first place, or because it wasn't Miyetti Allah cows that were killed. Nigeria has suffered a lot in the hands of this wicked government under General Buhari’s watch. What happened at the Lekki Toll Gate is a genocide and a planned work orchestrated by Buhari and Sanwo-Olu. The bullet that killed the innocent people will hunt you, for the law of karma is inevitable. The children of nobody are the target audience during any protest, the government officials sponsored thugs to disrupt a peaceful protest and blamed the protesters. The Buhari government has bred more evils and unchained their devils to go after people who are agitating for good governance. The Senate and reps should as a matter of urgency pass a vote of no confidence on the General, and ask him to resign honorably or get impeached. Right now, Nigeria is bleeding seriously, and we are already sitting on a keg of gunpowder. If not managed well, Nigeria will explode within the blink of an eye. The current situation in our country and the insulting speech of General Buhari show clearly that Nigeria has no president or leader at any level. There is temptation and confusion all over the country as government-hired hoodlums destroy properties. When the pot was cooking yams, no one heard; not until the yams got into the mortar to be pounded that noise broke out. General Buhari was deaf to listen to people’s requests. Those who ordered the killings of unarmed protesters in Nigeria will not survive this at the end of the day. Hong Kong protested for two years without killing any of its citizens. Here in Nigeria, the peaceful protests are not up to a month, yet we have lost many lives and properties. And some people who gave orders to kill the protesters claimed to be the father of all democracy. We plead and urge all the foreign countries to place permanent visa bans on all Nigeria politicians who have committed crimes against humanity, including their children and wives. Their families residing abroad should be repatriated to Nigeria immediately. These politicians have ripped us off both front and back, the hardship and hunger in the land is unbearable.