There is nothing that Asiwaju Awon Ole Bola Tinubu says or does that will surprise Yorubas any more, no matter how shocking or outrageous. When Funke Olakunrin daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, was dastardly murdered by Muhammadu Buhari’s Fulani herdsmen terrorists, Tinubu in front of a grieving, devastated Pa Fasoranti, proudly asked: “Where are the cows?” When he was asked in a phone conversation by angry youths that had lost comrades in the Lekki Massacre on Tuesday night, why he sent soldiers to kill defenceless peaceful protesters, Tinubu said: “I am not the Commander-in-Chief.” It is evident that Tinubu in collusion with General Muhammadu Buhari sent soldiers to kill the youth. Tinubu on Monday, justifying the use of force against the youth, said: “If they give the impression that (anarchy) is their goal, then any government will necessarily have to act with the requisite decisiveness and force to restore law and order and preserve constitutional rule.” Tinubu is not an ally of Yoruba people. He remains hostile to our most basic values and ideals. A person who betrays his or her country is guilty of statutory treason, meaning he or she is a traitor. A person who betrays his or her people is guilty of cultural treason, meaning he or she is a traitor. Based on either definition, Tinubu is guilty of treason and is therefore a traitor. Tinubu is traitorous, obnoxious, and wickedly wicked. He is a sell-out who gives aid and comfort to the cultural enemy Buhari and the Fulanis. Bola Tinubu The images of Nigerian youth are seared into popular memory as a symbol of courage and defiance protesting against police brutality and other socioeconomic policies of a government that have permanently impoverished them. The Nigerian public is sympathetic to the youth’s cause, while the government sees them as a political threat. Two weeks ago, the youth staged the first biggest challenge to the Buhari’s regime's legitimacy since it came to power in 2015. Thousands across the country poured into the streets. Initially fuelled by anger of police brutality, the youth’s agitation soon extended to economic and social issues and the slow pace of reforms by a regime many Nigerians view as dictatorship. But as the sun rose on the morning of October 20, 2020, Nigerians woke to a country soaked in blood. Over the coming days, the numbers of protesting youths steadily grew. For two weeks, it had seemed Nigeria was on the brink of a massive social change. After a tense two weeks, on the night of October 20, a convoy of armed troops under the cover of darkness arrived at Lekki Toll Gate with an aim to clear the gate. In just one night, hundreds of protesting youth were coldly gunned down by Buhari’s military. Witnesses told horrific stories of soldiers killing unarmed protesters shooting indiscriminately into the youths. In the end, Tinubu the Lagos warlord of thugs and thieves has rewritten the Nigerian history in political terrorism. The blood of the murdered youth is upon Tinubu’s head. Like Macbeth’s Glamis, Tinubu has murdered sleep and he shall sleep no more. Henceforth, he will know no peace. He has dressed himself in borrowed presidential robes. Tinubu will never be president! The revolution has just begun. The youth will not be deterred from fighting Tinubu, Buhari and the rest of the cabal of thieves and oppressors. May the souls of the departed youths rest in peace.