Oluwaseun Temitope Osewa, a Nigerian Internet entrepreneur and founder of Nairaland, has condemned the blockade of major roads in the country by  #EndSARS demonstrators. Osewa disclosed this in a tweet on Monday. Oluwaseun Temitope Osewa “I don't think it's wise for ‪#EndSARS‬ protesters to block traffic. The struggle against armed forces brutality will be long and hard. You can't keep the poor from earning their daily bread for much longer without losing their support,” he said. While some of his followers hailed him for the post, many kicked against it, saying the blockade was for the benefit of the ‘poor people’. “Who are the protesters fighting for, the rich? Do you know what you’re talking about? Do you think the rich cares? If the poor cannot sustain this momentary displeasure how do they combat poverty?Working for penury all their lives? Please redirect, except you’re part of the prob,” a Twitter user wrote. “Block everywhere....na this I don't care attitude put us for this one so....some people think because they have not been harrasssed its none of their business...this is not just an ‪#EndSARS‬ protest its ‪#EndBadGoveranceInNigeria‬ ....‪#EndSARS‬ is just a starting point,” another user wrote. @adekemitog wrote, “We re fighting for the poor people invariably. Most of the celebrities in the fore front of this fight can afford basic amenities. It's this same poor people that the govt is using to rig and vote during election. So let's all suffer now so they won't be poor in future.” @JattoDaniel said, “He raised a valid point, the protests should move to the nodes of the economy where the big men(who can effect change) benefit.Inconveniencing common people who may not understand the underlying long-term benefits of the protests may make their support wane, we need the numbers.” Nigerian youth have taken to the streets for more than one week now, calling for reforms within the Nigeria Police Force. Although Mohammed Adamu, Inspector-General of Police, has announced the disbandment of the SARS and the creation of the Special Weapon and Tactics team as a replacement, the youth have insisted on a total reform of the police as well as better welfare for citizens.