Bisola Alfa, the wife of Prophet Alfa Babatunde, the founder of the Sotitobire Miracle Centre Akure, says that the Department of State Services (DSS) searched her underwear just because they were looking for Gold Eniola Kolawole, a toddler who went missing in the church. A high court in Ondo State had on October 6 sentenced Babatunde and five other members of his church to life imprisonment over the whereabouts of the child who had not been found since last November after he was declared missing at the church.  Speaking with BBC Yoruba News monitored by SaharaReporter, Bisola said she was very sure that her husband had no hands in the disappearance of the child. The woman said she was accused of being an accomplice, adding that the prophet was not a politician. Bisola said since her husband was taken into custody, the police had stopped searching for the missing child. She said she received a text message from one Adamu, who claimed that he had the missing child in his custody. Bisola said she immediately informed the security agencies about the text message from the man. "The judgement isn't good at all," she said. "They should help us to unravel this case. There was nowhere the prophet said he kidnapped any child. They said he conspired with someone. Who exactly did he conspire with? The DSS came with my husband to search our House, and nothing was found. They searched for everything, including my undies and children's clothes." Bisola denied a claim that on the day the baby disappeared in the church that her husband gave out some prayer instructions that anyone who refused to close their eyes would not see December 2019. "It is a blunt lie," she said, referring to the allegation. She said her husband paid for the broadcast on all radio stations across Ondo State to find the missing child. The one-year-old Gold Eniola Kolawole had gone missing in November 2019 after his mother dropped him off at the creche section of the church during a service. Following the boy's disappearance, locals set the church ablaze as a rumour that the missing child was buried at the church's altar made the round. Babatunde and other church members were later found guilty for the boy's disappearance.