If you are angered by the brutality meted out on peaceful protesters by security forces under direct orders from Nigerian government authorities… … be creative and express your displeasure through any peaceful means – create and share a song, poem, video/audio recording, speech, article/story, blog, animation, cartoon, sculpture, painting, theater work, anything. Sign on to petitions and join up to causes initiated by others who are taking action because they are enraged by the lack of human empathy from our elected leaders. In any way your body, mind and spirit leads you, please revolt against the irreclaimable murder of Nigerian citizens by government security forces during past and ongoing global #EndSARS protests, specifically at the Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos State on Tuesday, 20 October 2020. Tell posterity that your government unleashed soldiers to kill you because you protested against the mess that your country has become. In practically ALL sectors of Nigeria’s economy – health, education, power, natural resources, sports, agriculture, infrastructure/roads/public amenities, pension, name them – our past and present leaders have failed to govern us well.  Tell the world, tell God. Tell the grieving, tell your children and future generations, that this was how you felt when the government that swore to protect you began killing you. Let your indignation be an expression of your pain, that will be a cry for vengeance for all innocent blood spilled. If you are appalled, then please owe it to your conscience to take an action that would reflect how you would feel if one peaceful unarmed protester, extra-judicially killed, was your brother, sister, father, mother, son, daughter, a relation, friend, or loved one. As Nigerians, may we never again be suppressed to fear our oppressors. We will rise to defy politicians and elected public officials who have betrayed public trust. Speak out against the Nigerian government-backed brutality meted out on Nigerian citizens who were gunned down because they took the destiny of their lives to protest for a better future for our country. When Injustice Becomes Law, Resistance Becomes A Duty! Speak up for our ‘Fallen Heroes’ for they have paid the ultimate price for the Better Nigeria that you desire for this nation. May the memory of their sacrifice forever remain. And their deaths never be in vain, Amen! SignedAn Angry Nigerian Youth #LekkiMassacre #EndSARS #EndBadGovernanceInNigeria