It is hard to question the consistency in character displayed by Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN. In his many decades of public service, Osinbajo has continued to practice what he preaches and embodies; integrity, honesty, strong values and principles, showing exemplary leadership, championing public causes, unity and patriotism, supporting the poor and vulnerable in society. As Attorney-General in Lagos State, the VP led significant reforms that changed the face of the state’s judiciary for the better; his reforms have since been referenced as template for many other states across the federation on how to improve the judiciary. In the academic, as a professor of law and evidence, Osinbajo has left none in doubt over his sagacity and brilliance in jurisprudence. And as a prominent pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Osinbajo had championed religious and social initiatives that have helped bring succor and improve the lives of many Christians and non-Christians families. Despite the antics of critics against Osinbajo, the VP has continued to prove them wrong by advancing social welfare causes, education and human rights, socio-economic development and deepening nationhood through his activities as Nigeria’s number two citizen. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo Also, Nigerians have commended his leadership qualities as deputy to President Muhammadu Buhari. Even the President has on different occasions praised the VP for his competence, patriotism, leadership, loyalty and dependability. Despite the unsubstantiated claims and downright false allegations by anti-Osinbajo’s groups in their nefarious bid to soil his good name, the VP’s stellar reputation continues to blossom like an oak tree. In all, Osinbajo remains steadfast like the Iroko tree; in character, competence and uprightness, to the chagrin of his traducers and critics. The more reason why sometimes, one wonders why itchy fingers opinion writers like Adeola Soetan, try to magnify their myopic views of Osinbajo, from their obvious lack of insight, with large-sized misguided sentiments. See Also






Opinion
The Vice Of A Vice President By Adeola Soetan
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago The write got it all wrong in his article. Osinbajo does not pretend to be a lawyer in the Presidential Villa. He is one, by qualification, disposition and activity. As VP, he has led and championed many causes to advance human rights and social good. From supervising the Social Investment Programmes between 2016 and 2019 - which provided millions of vulnerable Nigerians with succour through interest-free micro-credit loans, jobs for youths, free daily meals for Nigerians schoolchildren, etc; to advocating the need for reforms in the Police, Special Anti-Robbery (SARS) unit, Osinbajo has proven to be a leader with mettle and class. As VP, he continues to lead key economic reforms that has placed Nigeria on better footing globally; and his activities have helped in stimulating growth of the technology sector, youth development, among others. Yes, he is indeed a man of God and man of law who upholds the right values. In his role as VP, has continued to make significant efforts to improve the rule of law and justice, good governance and national development. Recently, it was in the news how the Vice President detected the Process and Industrious Development Limited (P&ID) fraud against Nigeria. According to reports of a review of the court record, the UK judge noted that “the timely observation and interventions of the Vice President was instrumental in how the P&ID case became known and identified as a fraudulent endeavour.” Sir Ross Cranston of the UK High Court of Justice Queen’s Bench Division Commercial Court explained that the Vice President was a regular fixture all through the review process under the Buhari administration, noting that the Vice President’s “fraud on the nation” statement in June 2018 turned the case against P&ID in Nigeria’s favour. In September 2019, about 20 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign reserves came under threat after a UK court had awarded the private company a $9.6 billion judgment debt against the country. But Nigeria has since secured some major milestones. However, last month, the UK Commercial Court granted Nigeria’s appeal for a stay of execution of the award in favour of P&ID that had secured a gas contract in Nigeria. The Royal Courts of Justice Strand, London, WC2A 2LL, presided over by Justice Sir Ross Cranston, said following a review of written submissions by the Nigerian government after the arbitral award, which contained “new evidence” concerning the matter in dispute, the court decided to grant “Nigeria’s applications for an extension of time and relief from sanctions.” Also, Justice Cranston ordered the P&ID to make an interim payment of more than £1.5 million to the federal government within 21 days. The £1.5 million is to cover legal costs the federal government incurred as part of its successful application for the extension of time to challenge the arbitration award and procedural hearing earlier in the year. Just to restates this point: in that article, Soetan got it all wrong. Prof. Osinbajo walks and acts the talk on the side of socio-economic development, rule of law, dispensation of justice and human right protection.